<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
<head>
<title>How To Draw People</title>
<link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:8101ffae-1c36-44f6-8f68-06ee2b9d0210" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="Demo-Head"><span class="demo">Assignment 5</span><br/>Draw in Different Styles</h1>
<p class="noindent">Every artist treats the figure differently. Michelangelo created idealized, heroic figures. El Greco painted elongated figures that were graceful and elegant. Some artists, such as the Art Deco painter Tamara de Lempicka or the Art Nouveau illustrator Alphonse Mucha, created highly stylistic images designed in the fashion of their times. Käthe Kollwitz drew her expressive charcoal drawings to impact the viewer on a visceral level. Egon Schiele used line and often distorted figures to explore the rawness of the human experience. Humorous artists, such as Honoré Daumier or Heinrich Kley, use exaggerated and cartoonish figures to toy with our expectations. Pablo Picasso’s fractured figures gave us a new way of seeing people all together. Every artist depicts the figure in his or her own unique way, and you, too, need to find a style that reflects your sensitivities and ideas on art.</p>
<p class="indent">Knowing the skills presented in this book will give you a foundation for discovering how you want to express the human form in your own work. If you want to draw and paint realistically, then you can delve deeper into the study of anatomy. If you want to draw stylistically, then you can focus on designing your figures with shapes and proportions that express your personal style.</p>
<p class="indent">If you don’t have an idea of where you want to go with your art, you can explore the figure through a variety of approaches. This assignment gives you one way to explore different styles.</p>
<p class="Assignment-HD">1| Gather Reference Images</p>
<p class="SbS1">Gather several drawing or paintings of figures from an artist that you like stylistically. It doesn’t have to be a fine artist. You can choose an animator you like (such as Glen Keane or Hayao Miyazaki) or a comic book artist (such as Todd McFarlane or Frank Miller), or anyone who really inspires you.</p>
<p class="Assignment-HD">2| Analyze the Work and Sketch</p>
<p class="SbS1">Analyze what makes each drawing look the way it does. How are the shapes and lines put together? Are the proportions tweaked or exaggerated? Is there a strong sense of volume, or is it more flat or graphic? Take some time and copy the artist’s drawings to really understand how he or she created the figures.</p>
<p class="Assignment-HD">3| Choose a Second Artist</p>
<p class="SbS1">Find a second artist whose subject matter you like. What makes this art appealing to you? What does it say to you personally?</p>
<p class="Assignment-HD">4| Combine the Two</p>
<p class="SbS1">Now draw a figure as if you were the first artist you chose trying to express the ideas of the second artist. For example, how would Degas express the ideas of gender and identity that Frida Kahlo explored? How would Chuck Jones depict the experiences of ordinary rural Americans that Thomas Hart Benton painted? Have fun mashing up different artists and styles.</p>
<p class="SbS2">The main thrust of this exercise is to get you to use your skills in different ways stylistically and to think about ideas that are important to you. It will help you see how other artists approached the figure and how they used the human form to express an idea.</p>
</body>
</html>