<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en">
<head>
<title>How To Draw People</title>
<link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:8101ffae-1c36-44f6-8f68-06ee2b9d0210" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="BM-HD">Further Reading</h1>
<p class="noindent">This book was designed to give you the tools to approach drawing people and inventing figures. It isn’t an exhaustive reference for all the muscles and bones in the body. Anatomy books designed for artists are great for figuring out what muscle you’re seeing on a model, and they can also help you figure out the shape of a muscle and how the muscles fit together. Below are some books that I’ve found helpful when learning to draw more realistic figures.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Human Anatomy for Artists: The Elements of Form</i> by Eliot Goldfinger, Oxford University Press, 1991</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Strength Training Anatomy,</i> 3rd Edition, by Frederic Delavier, Human Kinetics, 2010. See other books in this series as well.</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Dynamic Anatomy: Revised and Expanded Edition</i> by Burne Hogarth, Watson-Guptill, 2003</p>
<p class="noindent1"><i>Bridgman’s Complete Guide to Drawing from Life</i> by George Bridgman, Sterling Publishing, 2009</p>
<p class="noindent1">Also, a company called 3D4Medical makes excellent programs for the computer and tablets that show the muscles in three dimensions. It’s really useful for seeing the shapes of the muscles, what they attach to and how they weave together.</p>
</body>
</html>