<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="bibliography" role="doc-bibliography">&#13;
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="245" id="Page_245" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a id="bibliography"/>BIBLIOGRAPHY</h1></header>&#13;
<span id="bbiblio-bibl-0001"/>&#13;
<ol class="biblioEntryList">&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0001" role="doc-biblioentry"> Achor, Shaun, “The Happiness Dividend,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (June 23, 2011), <a href="https://hbr.org/2011/06/the-happiness-dividend">https://hbr.org/2011/06/the-happiness-dividend</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0002" role="doc-biblioentry"> Agarwal, Ritu, Sands, Daniel Z., and Schneider, Jorge Díaz, “Quantifying the Economic Impact of Communication Inefficiencies in U.S. Hospitals,” <i>Journal of Healthcare Management</i> 55, no. 4 (July–August 2010): 267.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0003" role="doc-biblioentry"> “All Actors Are Cattle,” Quote investigator, accessed June 7, 2018.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0004" role="doc-biblioentry"> Allesandra, Tony, and O'Connor, Michael J., <cite><i>The Platinum Rule: Discover the Four Basic Business Personalities and How They Can Lead You to Success</i></cite> (New York: Grand Central Publishing, 1998).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0005" role="doc-biblioentry"> Amabile, Teresa, and Kramer, Steven J., “The Power of Small Wins,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (May 2011), <a href="https://hbr.org/2011/05/the-power-of-small-wins">https://hbr.org/2011/05/the-power-of-small-wins</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0006" role="doc-biblioentry"> AP, “Satya Nadella Aims to Make Microsoft Mighty—and Mindful,” <cite><i>USA Today</i></cite> (September 25, 2015).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0007" role="doc-biblioentry"> Ariely, Dan, <cite><i>Payoff: The Hidden Logic That Shapes Our Motivation</i></cite> (Simon &amp; Schuster, 2016).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0008" role="doc-biblioentry"> Bathurst, J., and Walton, D. “An Exploration of the Perceptions of the Average Driver's Speed Compared to Perceived Driver Safety and Driving Skill: Accident Analysis and Prevention,” <cite><i>PubMed</i></cite> 30 (November 1998): 821–830.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0009" role="doc-biblioentry"> Bluedorn, Alan. C, Turban, Daniel. B, and Love, Mary Sue, “The Effects of Stand-Up and Sit-Down Meeting Formats on Meeting Outcomes,” <cite><i>Journal of Applied Psychology</i></cite> 84, no. 2 (1999): 277–285.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0010" role="doc-biblioentry"> Bock, Lazslo, <cite><i>Work Rules! Insight from Inside Google That Will Transform How You Live and Lead</i></cite> (London: John Murray, 2015).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0011" role="doc-biblioentry"> <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="246" id="Page_246" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Brody, Richard, “Tippi Hedren and Alfred Hitchcock,” <cite><i>The New Yorker</i></cite>, accessed June 7, 2018, <a href="https://www.newyorker.com/culture/richard-brody/tippi-hedren-and-alfred-hitchcock">https://www.newyorker.com/culture/richard-brody/tippi-hedren-and-alfred-hitchcock</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0012" role="doc-biblioentry"> Brown, Chris, Killick, Andrew, and Renaud, Karen, “To Reduce E-mail, Start at the Top,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (September 2013), <a href="https://hbr.org/2013/09/to-reduce-e-mail-start-at-the-top">https://hbr.org/2013/09/to-reduce-e-mail-start-at-the-top</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0013" role="doc-biblioentry"> Buckingham, Marcus, and Coffman, Curt, <cite><i>First Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently</i></cite> (London: Simon &amp; Schuster UK, 2005), 257.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0014" role="doc-biblioentry"> Burkus, David, “Why Amazon Bought into Zappos's ‘Pay to Quit’ Policy,” <cite><i>Inc.</i></cite> (June 15, 2016), <a href="https://www.inc.com/david-burkus/why-amazon-bought-into-zappos-pay-to-quit-policy.html">https://www.inc.com/david-burkus/why-amazon-bought-into-zappos-pay-to-quit-policy.html</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0015" role="doc-biblioentry"> “The Business Case for Trust,” Franklin Covey, accessed June 8, 2018, <a href="http://www.speedoftrust.com/how-the-speed-of-trust-works/business_case">http://www.speedoftrust.com/how-the-speed-of-trust-works/business_case</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0016" role="doc-biblioentry"> Carlzon, Jan, <cite><i>Moments of Truth</i></cite> (New York: Harper Perennial, 1987).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0017" role="doc-biblioentry"> Carnegie, Dale, <cite><i>How to Win Friends and Influence People</i></cite> (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 1981).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0018" role="doc-biblioentry"> CBC News, “Low-Intensity Exercise Can Boost Energy, Curb Fatigue: Study” (February 29, 2008), <a href="http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/low-intensity-exercise-can-boost-energy-curb-fatigue-study-1.714677">http://www.cbc.ca/news/technology/low-intensity-exercise-can-boost-energy-curb-fatigue-study-1.714677</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0019" role="doc-biblioentry"> Clarke, Boyd, and Crossland, Ron, <i>The Leaders Voice: How Your Communication Can Inspire and Get Results!</i> (New York: Select Books, 2004).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0020" role="doc-biblioentry"> Clifton, Jim, “Are You Sure You Have a Great Workplace Culture?” (April 27, 2017), <a href="http://news.gallup.com/opinion/chairman/209033/sure-great-workplace-culture.aspx?g_source=EMPLOYEE_ENGAGEMENT&amp;g_medium=topic&amp;g_campaign=tiles">http://news.gallup.com/opinion/chairman/209033/sure-great-workplace-culture.aspx?g_source=EMPLOYEE_ENGAGEMENT&amp;g_medium=topic&amp;g_campaign=tiles</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0021" role="doc-biblioentry"> Colvin, Geoff, “Humans Are Underrated,” <cite><i>Fortune</i></cite> (July 23, 2015), <a href="http://fortune.com/2015/07/23/humans-are-underrated/">http://fortune.com/2015/07/23/humans-are-underrated/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0022" role="doc-biblioentry"> Conant, Douglas R., “Secrets of Positive Feedback,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (February 16, 2011), <a href="https://hbr.org/2011/02/secrets-of-positive-feedback">https://hbr.org/2011/02/secrets-of-positive-feedback</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0023" role="doc-biblioentry"> <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="247" id="Page_247" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Cwiek, Sarah, “The Middle Class Took Off 100 Years Ago . . . Thanks to Henry Ford?” <cite><i>Economy</i></cite> (January 27, 2014), <a href="https://www.npr.org/2014/01/27/267145552/the-middle-class-took-off-100-years-ago-thanks-to-henry-ford">https://www.npr.org/2014/01/27/267145552/the-middle-class-took-off-100-years-ago-thanks-to-henry-ford</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0024" role="doc-biblioentry"> Davidson, Jacob, “How Microsoft Became a Market Darling, in Two Charts,” <cite><i>Money</i></cite> (May 5, 2015).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0025" role="doc-biblioentry"> Deming, W. Edwards, Four-day seminar, Phoenix, Arizona (February 1993) (via the notes of Mike Stoecklein), <a href="http://quotes.deming.org/authors/W._Edwards_Deming/quote/10091">http://quotes.deming.org/authors/W._Edwards_Deming/quote/10091</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0026" role="doc-biblioentry"> Duhigg, Charles, <cite><i>The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do and How to Change</i></cite> (New York: Random House, 2013).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0027" role="doc-biblioentry"> Duhigg, Charles, “What Google Learned from Its Quest to Build the Perfect Team,” <cite><i>New York Times</i></cite> (February 25, 2016), <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html?_r=1">https://www.nytimes.com/2016/02/28/magazine/what-google-learned-from-its-quest-to-build-the-perfect-team.html?_r=1</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0028" role="doc-biblioentry"> Easterlin, Richard, A., “The Worldwide Standard of Living since 1800,” <cite><i>Journal of Economic Perspectives</i></cite> 14, no. 1: 7–27.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0029" role="doc-biblioentry"> Eccles, R. G., and Nohria, N., <cite><i>Beyond the Hype: Rediscovering the Essence of Management</i></cite> (Boston: Harvard Business School Press, 1991).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0030" role="doc-biblioentry"> “Edelman Trust Index,” Edelman, accessed February 9, 2017, <a href="http://www.edelman.com/executive-summary">http://www.edelman.com/executive-summary</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0031" role="doc-biblioentry"> Ellison, Katherina, “Being Honest about the Pygmalion Effect,” <cite><i>Discover</i></cite> (December 2015), <a href="http://discovermagazine.com/2015/dec/14-great-expectations">http://discovermagazine.com/2015/dec/14-great-expectations</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0032" role="doc-biblioentry"> “The Engaged Workspace,” Gallop, accessed June 6, 2018, <a href="http://www.gallup.com/services/190118/engaged-workplace.aspx">http://www.gallup.com/services/190118/engaged-workplace.aspx</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0033" role="doc-biblioentry"> EY, “The Business Case for Purpose,” <i>Harvard Business Review</i> (2015), <a href="http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/ey-the-business-case-for-purpose/%24FILE/ey-the-business-case-for-purpose.pdf">http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/ey-the-business-case-for-purpose/$FILE/ey-the-business-case-for-purpose.pdf</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0034" role="doc-biblioentry"> “For Workplace Failures,” Press Room, Fierce (May 4, 2011), <a href="https://fierceinc.com/employees-cite-lack-of-collaboration-for-workplace-failures">https://fierceinc.com/employees-cite-lack-of-collaboration-for-workplace-failures</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0035" role="doc-biblioentry"> <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="248" id="Page_248" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Fowler, Susan, “Reflecting on One Very, Very Strange Year at Uber” (February 19, 2017), <a href="https://www.susanjfowler.com/blog/2017/2/19/reflecting-on-one-very-strange-year-at-uber">https://www.susanjfowler.com/blog/2017/2/19/reflecting-on-one-very-strange-year-at-uber</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0036" role="doc-biblioentry"> Fowler, Susan, “Susan Fowler's Plans after Uber? Tear down the System That Protects Harassers,” Interview by Sam Levin, accessed June 8, 2018, <a href="https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/apr/11/susan-fowler-uber-interview-forced-arbitration-law">https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2018/apr/11/susan-fowler-uber-interview-forced-arbitration-law</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0037" role="doc-biblioentry"> Fredrickson, Barbara L., Cohn, Michael A., Coffey, Kimberley A., Pek Jolynn, and Finkel, Sandra M., “Open Hearts Build Lives: Positive Emotions, Induced through Loving-Kindness Meditation, Build Consequential Personal Resources,” <cite><i>Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</i></cite> 95, no. 5 (November 2008): 1045–1062, <a href="https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3156028/">https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3156028/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0038" role="doc-biblioentry"> Gallup, “U.S. Employee Engagement” (July 30, 2017), <a href="http://news.gallup.com/poll/214961/gallup-employee-engagement.aspx%20accessed%20October%2020,%202017">http://news.gallup.com/poll/214961/gallup-employee-engagement.aspx%20accessed%20October%2020,%202017</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0039" role="doc-biblioentry"> Gaskell, Adi, “New Study Shows That Collaboration Drives Workplace Performance,” <cite><i>Forbes</i></cite> (June 22, 2017), <a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/adigaskell/2017/06/22/new-study-finds-that-collaboration-drives-workplace-performance/#26e9ce303d02">https://www.forbes.com/sites/adigaskell/2017/06/22/new-study-finds-that-collaboration-drives-workplace-performance/#26e9ce303d02</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0040" role="doc-biblioentry"> “GDP per Capita,” World Bank, accessed June 6, 2018, <a href="https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/ny.gdp.pcap.kd">https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/ny.gdp.pcap.kd</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0041" role="doc-biblioentry"> Goleman, Daniel, “What Makes a Leader,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (January 2004).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0042" role="doc-biblioentry"> Greenfeld, Karl Taro, “Taco Bell and the Golden Age of Drive-Thru,” <cite><i>Bloomberg Businessweek</i></cite> (May 5, 2011), <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2011-05-05/taco-bell-and-the-golden-age-of-drive-thru">https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2011-05-05/taco-bell-and-the-golden-age-of-drive-thru</a></li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0043" role="doc-biblioentry"> Grossman, Linda, “Metric Math Mistake Muffed Mars Meteorology Mission,” <cite><i>Wired</i></cite> (November 10, 1999), <a href="https://www.wired.com/2010/11/1110mars-climate-observer-report/">https://www.wired.com/2010/11/1110mars-climate-observer-report/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0044" role="doc-biblioentry"> Guynn, Jessica, “Some Uber Riders React to Sexism Claims with Their Wallets,” <cite><i>USA Today</i></cite> (March 8, 2017), <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/news/2017/03/08/more-uber-riders-ditch-ride-hailing-app-over-susan-fowler-harassment-discrimination-charges/98862784/">https://www.usatoday.com/story/tech/news/2017/03/08/more-uber-riders-ditch-ride-hailing-app-over-susan-fowler-harassment-discrimination-charges/98862784/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0045" role="doc-biblioentry"> Hart Research Associates, “It Takes More Than a Major: Employer Priorities for College Learning and Student Success,” Association of American Colleges and Universities, accessed June 8, 2018,<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="249" id="Page_249" role="doc-pagebreak"/> <a href="https://www.aacu.org/publications-research/periodicals/it-takes-more-major-employer-priorities-college-learning-and">https://www.aacu.org/publications-research/periodicals/it-takes-more-major-employer-priorities-college-learning-and</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0046" role="doc-biblioentry"> IBM, “Leading through Connections: Insights from the Global Chief Executive Officer Study,” IBM (2012), 21.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0047" role="doc-biblioentry"> Inzlicht, Michael, and Obhi, Sukhvinder, “Powerful and Coldhearted,” <cite><i>New York Times</i></cite> (July 25, 2014), <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/27/opinion/sunday/powerful-and-coldhearted.html?ref=opinion&amp;_r=1">https://www.nytimes.com/2014/07/27/opinion/sunday/powerful-and-coldhearted.html?ref=opinion&amp;_r=1</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0048" role="doc-biblioentry"> IKEA, “Welcome Inside Our Company,” accessed June 7, 2018, <a href="https://www.ikea.com/ms/en_US/this-is-ikea/company-information/index.html">https://www.ikea.com/ms/en_US/this-is-ikea/company-information/index.html</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0049" role="doc-biblioentry"> Isaacson, Walter, “How Steve Jobs' Love of Simplicity Fueled a Design Revolution, <i>Smithsonian Magazine</i> (September 2012), <a href="https://www.smithsonianmag.com/arts-culture/how-steve-jobs-love-of-simplicity-fueled-a-design-revolution-23868877/">https://www.smithsonianmag.com/arts-culture/how-steve-jobs-love-of-simplicity-fueled-a-design-revolution-23868877/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0050" role="doc-biblioentry"> Kahn, William A., “Psychological Conditions of Personal Engagement and Disengagement at Work,” <i>Academy of Management Journal</i> 33, no. 4 (January 1, 1990): 708.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0051" role="doc-biblioentry"> Kennedy, John F., “Untitled Speech” [Undelivered], Trade Mart, Dallas TX (November 22, 1963), <a href="https://www.jfklibrary.org/Research/Research-Aids/JFK-Speeches/Dallas-TX-Trade-Mart-Undelivered_19631122.aspx">https://www.jfklibrary.org/Research/Research-Aids/JFK-Speeches/Dallas-TX-Trade-Mart-Undelivered_19631122.aspx</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0052" role="doc-biblioentry"> Keswin, Erica, “Use Stories from Customers to Highlight Your Company's Purpose,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (June 22, 2017), <a href="https://hbr.org/2017/06/use-stories-from-customers-to-highlight-your-companys-purpose">https://hbr.org/2017/06/use-stories-from-customers-to-highlight-your-companys-purpose</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0053" role="doc-biblioentry"> Ketchum, <i>Leadership Communication Monitor</i> 2016 (2016), <a href="http://www.ketchum.com/pt-br/special-report/leadership-communication-monitor-2016">http://www.ketchum.com/pt-br/special-report/leadership-communication-monitor-2016</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0054" role="doc-biblioentry"> Kirby, Julia, “Beware the Baboon Boss,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (May 22, 2009), <a href="https://hbr.org/2009/05/baboons">https://hbr.org/2009/05/baboons</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0055" role="doc-biblioentry"> Kouzes, Jim, and Posner, Barry, <cite><i>The Leadership Challenge</i></cite> (New York: John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2012).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0056" role="doc-biblioentry"> Kouzes, James M., and Posner, Barry Z., <cite><i>The Truth about Leadership: The No-Fads, Heart-of-the-Matter Facts You Need to Know</i></cite> (Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley &amp; Sons: 2010).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0057" role="doc-biblioentry"> <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="250" id="Page_250" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Lang, Annamarie, and Bradford, Thomas, “Where Are Your “Ready-Now” Leaders?” <cite><i>Development Dimensions International</i></cite> (February 20, 2013), <a href="http://www.ddiworld.com/ddi/media/white-papers/whereareyourreadynowleaders_wp_ddi.pdf">http://www.ddiworld.com/ddi/media/white-papers/whereareyourreadynowleaders_wp_ddi.pdf</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0058" role="doc-biblioentry"> “Life Expectancy at Birth,” World Bank, accessed June 6, 2018, <a href="https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.DYN.LE00.IN?end=2015&amp;start=1960">https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.DYN.LE00.IN?end=2015&amp;start=1960</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0059" role="doc-biblioentry"> Lin, Bing C., Kain, Jason M., and Fritz, Charlotte, “Don't Interrupt Me! An Examination of the Relationship between Intrusions at Work and Employee Strain,” <cite><i>International Journal of Stress Management</i></cite> 20, no. 2 (2013): 77–94.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0060" role="doc-biblioentry"> LinkedIn, “2016 Global Report: Purpose at Work,” LinkedIn (2016), <a href="https://business.linkedin.com/content/dam/me/business/en-us/talent-solutions/resources/pdfs/Global-Report-on-Purpose-at-Work.pdf">https://business.linkedin.com/content/dam/me/business/en-us/talent-solutions/resources/pdfs/Global-Report-on-Purpose-at-Work.pdf</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0061" role="doc-biblioentry"> Loew, Laci, “State of Leadership Development 2015: Time to Act Is Now,” Brandon Hall Group (August 2015), <a href="http://www.ddiworld.com/DDI/media/trend-research/state-of-leadership-development_tr_brandon-hall.pdf?ext=.pdf%2520">http://www.ddiworld.com/DDI/media/trend-research/state-of-leadership-development_tr_brandon-hall.pdf?ext=.pdf%2520</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0062" role="doc-biblioentry"> Loew, Laci, “Study Shows Leadership Development Rated below Average or Poor in More than One-Third of Organizations,” <cite><i>Training</i></cite> (May 28, 2015), <a href="https://trainingmag.com/study-shows-leadership-development-rated-below-average-or-poor-more-one-third-organizations">https://trainingmag.com/study-shows-leadership-development-rated-below-average-or-poor-more-one-third-organizations</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0063" role="doc-biblioentry"> Lubin, Joann, “How to Be a Better Boss? Spend Time on the Front Lines,” <cite><i>The Wall Street Journal</i></cite> (February 9, 2012), <a href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052970203824904577212951446826014">https://www.wsj.com/articles/SB10001424052970203824904577212951446826014</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0064" role="doc-biblioentry"> Luna, Tania, and Perringer, Leeann, <i>Surprise: Embrace the Unpredictable and Engineer the Unexpected</i> (New York: Tarcherperigee, 2015).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0065" role="doc-biblioentry"> Lutz, Ashley, “How Trader Joe's Sells Twice as Much as Whole Foods,” <cite><i>Business Insider</i></cite> (October 7, 2014), <a href="http://www.businessinsider.com/trader-joes-sales-strategy-2014-10?IR=T">http://www.businessinsider.com/trader-joes-sales-strategy-2014-10?IR=T</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0066" role="doc-biblioentry"> <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="251" id="Page_251" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Lutz, Ashley, “Nordstrom's Employee Handbook Has Only One Rule,” <cite><i>Business Insider</i></cite> (October 13, 2014), <a href="http://www.businessinsider.com/nordstroms-employee-handbook-2014-10?IR=T">http://www.businessinsider.com/nordstroms-employee-handbook-2014-10?IR=T</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0067" role="doc-biblioentry"> Lyft (@lyft), “Our Mission Is to Reconnect People through Transportation and Bring Communities Together” (March 16, 2015), <a href="https://twitter.com/lyft/status/577558134698348544?lang=e">https://twitter.com/lyft/status/577558134698348544?lang=e</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0068" role="doc-biblioentry"> Madden, Mary, and Jones, Sydney, “Most Workers Use the Internet or Email at Their Jobs, but They Say These Technologies Are a Mixed Blessing for Them,” Pew Internet and American Life Project (September 24, 2008), <a href="http://www.pewinternet.org/files/old-media//Files/Reports/2008/PIP_Networked_Workers_FINAL.pdf.pdf">http://www.pewinternet.org/files/old-media//Files/Reports/2008/PIP_Networked_Workers_FINAL.pdf.pdf</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0069" role="doc-biblioentry"> Mankins, Michael, “Is Technology Really Helping Us Get More Done?” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (February 25, 2016), <a href="https://hbr.org/2016/02/is-technology-really-helping-us-get-more-done">https://hbr.org/2016/02/is-technology-really-helping-us-get-more-done</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0070" role="doc-biblioentry"> Mankins, Michael, Brahm, Chris, and Caimi, Greg, “Your Scarcest Resource,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (May 2014), <a href="https://hbr.org/2014/05/your-scarcest-resource">https://hbr.org/2014/05/your-scarcest-resource</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0071" role="doc-biblioentry"> Manyika, James, Lund, Susan, Auguste, Byron, and Ramaswamy, Sreenivas, “Help Wanted: The Future of Work in Advanced Economics,” McKinsey Global Institute (March 2012), <a href="https://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/Featured%20Insights/Employment%20and%20Growth/Future%20of%20work%20in%20advanced%20economies/Help_wanted_future_of_work_full_report.ashx">https://www.mckinsey.com/∼/media/McKinsey/Featured%20Insights/Employment%20and%20Growth/Future%20of%20work%20in%20advanced%20economies/Help_wanted_future_of_work_full_report.ashx</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0072" role="doc-biblioentry"> Mark, Gloria, and Bren, Donald, “Too Many Interruptions at Work?” <cite>Gallup</cite> (June 8, 2006), <a href="http://news.gallup.com/businessjournal/23146/too-many-interruptions-work.aspx">http://news.gallup.com/businessjournal/23146/too-many-interruptions-work.aspx</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0073" role="doc-biblioentry"> Martinez, Amy, “Tale of Lost Diamond Adds Glitter to Nordstrom's Customer Service,” <cite><i>The Seattle Times</i></cite> (May 11, 2011), <a href="http://old.seattletimes.com/html/businesstechnology/2015028167_nordstrom12.html">http://old.seattletimes.com/html/businesstechnology/2015028167_nordstrom12.html</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0074" role="doc-biblioentry"> McCarthy, Niall, “A 40 Hour Work Week in the United States Actually Lasts 47 Hours,” <cite><i>Forbes</i></cite> (September 1, 2014), <a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/niallmccarthy/2014/09/01/a-40-hour-work-week-in-the-united-states-actually-lasts-47-hours/#4022e569f5e4">https://www.forbes.com/sites/niallmccarthy/2014/09/01/a-40-hour-work-week-in-the-united-states-actually-lasts-47-hours/#4022e569f5e4</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0075" role="doc-biblioentry"> <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="252" id="Page_252" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Mesmer-Magnus, Jessica, Glew, David J., and Chockalingam, Viswesvaran, “A Meta-analysis of Positive Humor in the Workplace,” <cite><i>Journal of Managerial Psychology</i></cite> 27, no. 2 (2012): 155–190, <a href="https://doi.org/10.1108/02683941211199554">https://doi.org/10.1108/02683941211199554</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0076" role="doc-biblioentry"> Minter, Adam, “Somebody's Making Money off of All Our Junk,” <cite>Bloomberg</cite> <i>(</i>August 28 2017), <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-08-28/the-self-storage-business-is-booming-here-s-why">https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2017-08-28/the-self-storage-business-is-booming-here-s-why</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0077" role="doc-biblioentry"> “More than Half the Homes in U.S. Have Three or More TV's,” Nielson (July 20, 2009), <a href="http://www.nielsen.com/us/en/insights/news/2009/more-than-half-the-homes-in-us-have-three-or-more-tvs.html">http://www.nielsen.com/us/en/insights/news/2009/more-than-half-the-homes-in-us-have-three-or-more-tvs.html</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0078" role="doc-biblioentry"> Murphy, Mark, “Interruptions at Work Are Killing Your Productivity,” <cite><i>Forbes</i></cite> (October 30, 2016), <a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/markmurphy/2016/10/30/interruptions-at-work-are-killing-your-productivity/#6708a8981689">https://www.forbes.com/sites/markmurphy/2016/10/30/interruptions-at-work-are-killing-your-productivity/#6708a8981689</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0079" role="doc-biblioentry"> Nadella, Satya, “Satya Nadella: The C in CEO Stands for Culture,” <cite><i>Fast Company</i></cite> (September 21, 2017).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0080" role="doc-biblioentry"> Nadella, Satya, “We Sat Down with Microsoft's CEO to Discuss the Past, Present and Future of the Company,” interview by Krzysztof Majdan and Michał Wasowski, <cite><i>Business Insider</i></cite> (April 20, 2017), <a href="http://uk.businessinsider.com/satya-nadella-microsoft-ceo-qa-2017-4?r=US&amp;IR=T">http://uk.businessinsider.com/satya-nadella-microsoft-ceo-qa-2017-4?r=US&amp;IR=T</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0081" role="doc-biblioentry"> Naisbitt, John, <cite><i>Megatrends</i></cite> (New York: Warner Trends, 1984), 25.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0082" role="doc-biblioentry"> Nasri, Grace, “Solving Information Asymmetry: How Today's Companies Are Empowering Consumers and Creating More Efficient Markets,” <cite><i>Huffpost</i></cite> (November 9 2013), <a href="https://www.huffingtonpost.com/grace-nasri/solving-information-asymm_b_3870302.html?guccounter=1">https://www.huffingtonpost.com/grace-nasri/solving-information-asymm_b_3870302.html?guccounter=1</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0083" role="doc-biblioentry"> <i>The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics</i>, ed. <cite>Steven Durlaf and Lawrence Blume</cite> (London: Macmillan, 2008), 841.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0084" role="doc-biblioentry"> Nyberg, A., Alfredsson, L, Theorell, T., Westerlund, H., Vahtera, J., and Kivimäki, M., “Managerial Leadership and Ischaemic Heart Disease among Employees: The Swedish WOLF Study,” <cite><i>Occupational and Environmental Medicine</i></cite> 66, no. 1 (January 2009): 51–55.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0085" role="doc-biblioentry"> <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="253" id="Page_253" role="doc-pagebreak"/>O'Connor, Kara, “Out of Time Residents Not Happy about Post,” <cite><i>The Hour</i></cite> (September 15, 2010), <a href="http://www.thehour.com/wilton/article/out-of-time-residents-not-happy-about-post-8295123.php">http://www.thehour.com/wilton/article/out-of-time-residents-not-happy-about-post-8295123.php</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0086" role="doc-biblioentry"> Oxford Economics, “Global Talent 2021: How the New Geography of Talent Will Transform Human Resource Strategies,” <cite><i>Oxford Economics</i></cite> (2012).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0087" role="doc-biblioentry"> Perelman, Michael, “Henry Ford Double's His Worker's Wages,” Delancey Place (January 29, 2016), <a href="https://delanceyplace.com/view-archives.php?p=2991">https://delanceyplace.com/view-archives.php?p=2991</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0088" role="doc-biblioentry"> Pine II, Joseph B., and Gilmore, James H., “Welcome to the Experience Economy,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (July–August 1998), <a href="https://hbr.org/1998/07/welcome-to-the-experience-economy">https://hbr.org/1998/07/welcome-to-the-experience-economy</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0089" role="doc-biblioentry"> Pink, Daniel H., “Revenge of the Right Brain,” <cite><i>WIRED</i></cite> (January 1, 2005), <a href="https://www.wired.com/2005/02/brain/">https://www.wired.com/2005/02/brain/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0090" role="doc-biblioentry"> Pink, Daniel H., <i>To Sell Is Human</i>: <cite><i>The Surprising Truth about Moving Others</i></cite> (New York: Riverhead Books, 2012), 83–89.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0091" role="doc-biblioentry"> Popken, Ben, “Zappos Saves Best Man from Going Barefoot at Wedding,” <cite><i>Consumerist</i></cite> (May 19, 2011), <a href="https://consumerist.com/2011/05/19/zappos-saves-best-man-from-going-barefoot-at-wedding/">https://consumerist.com/2011/05/19/zappos-saves-best-man-from-going-barefoot-at-wedding/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0092" role="doc-biblioentry"> Porath, Christine, “Half of Employees Don't Feel Respected by Their Bosses,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (November 19, 2014), <a href="https://hbr.org/2014/11/half-of-employees-dont-feel-respected-by-their-bosses">https://hbr.org/2014/11/half-of-employees-dont-feel-respected-by-their-bosses</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0093" role="doc-biblioentry"> Pfau, Bruce, “What Do Millennials Really Want from Work? The Same Things the Rest of Us Do,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (April 7, 2016), <a href="https://hbr.org/2016/04/what-do-millennials-really-want-at-work">https://hbr.org/2016/04/what-do-millennials-really-want-at-work</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0094" role="doc-biblioentry"> Quigley, Jeana, “Do You Care about Onboarding? You Should,” <cite>Bamboo HR</cite> (April 23, 2014), <a href="https://www.bamboohr.com/blog/onboarding-infographic/">https://www.bamboohr.com/blog/onboarding-infographic/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0095" role="doc-biblioentry"> Quirk, Mary Beth, “Zappos CSR's Kindness Warms Our Heart,” <cite><i>Consumerist</i></cite> (January 17, 2011), <a href="https://consumerist.com/2011/01/17/zappos-customer-service-reps-kindness-warms-our-cold-hearts/">https://consumerist.com/2011/01/17/zappos-customer-service-reps-kindness-warms-our-cold-hearts/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0096" role="doc-biblioentry"> Rehak, Judith, and <i>International Herald Tribune</i>, “Tylenol Made a Hero of Johnson &amp; Johnson: The Recall That Started Them All,”<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="254" id="Page_254" role="doc-pagebreak"/> <cite><i>The New York Times</i></cite> (March 23, 2002), <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2002/03/23/your-money/tylenol-made-a-hero-of-johnson-johnson-the-recall-that-started.html">https://www.nytimes.com/2002/03/23/your-money/tylenol-made-a-hero-of-johnson-johnson-the-recall-that-started.html</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0097" role="doc-biblioentry"> Reingold, Jennifer, “What the Heck Is Angela Ahrendts Doing at Apple?” <cite><i>Fortune</i></cite> (September 10, 2015), <a href="http://fortune.com/2015/09/10/angela-ahrendts-apple/">http://fortune.com/2015/09/10/angela-ahrendts-apple/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0098" role="doc-biblioentry"> Ricci, Judith, Chee, A. E., Lorandeau, A. L. and Berger, J., “Fatigue in the U.S. Workforce: Prevalence and Implications for Lost Productive Work Time,” <cite><i>Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine</i></cite> 49, no. 1 (2007): 1–10.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0099" role="doc-biblioentry"> Robinson, Ken, “Do Schools Kill Creativity?” TED (February 2006), <a href="https://www.ted.com/talks/ken_robinson_says_schools_kill_creativity">https://www.ted.com/talks/ken_robinson_says_schools_kill_creativity</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0100" role="doc-biblioentry"> Roggio, Armando, “The Zappos Effect: 5 Great Customer Service Ideas for Small Businesses,” <cite>Practical Ecommerce</cite> (March 11, 2011), <a href="https://www.practicalecommerce.com/The-Zappos-Effect-5-Great-Customer-Service-Ideas-for-Smaller-Businesses">https://www.practicalecommerce.com/The-Zappos-Effect-5-Great-Customer-Service-Ideas-for-Smaller-Businesses</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0101" role="doc-biblioentry"> Samarrai, Fariss, “Human Brains Are Hardwired for Empathy, Friendship, Study Shows,” <cite><i>UVA Today</i></cite> (August 21 2013), <a href="https://news.virginia.edu/content/human-brains-are-hardwired-empathy-friendship-study-shows">https://news.virginia.edu/content/human-brains-are-hardwired-empathy-friendship-study-shows</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0102" role="doc-biblioentry"> Schwartz, Tony, and Porath, Christine, “Why You Hate Work,” <cite><i>New York Times</i></cite> (May 30, 2014), <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/01/opinion/sunday/why-you-hate-work.html">https://www.nytimes.com/2014/06/01/opinion/sunday/why-you-hate-work.html</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0103" role="doc-biblioentry"> Shen, Lucinda, “United Airlines Stock Drops $1.4 Billion after Passenger-Removal Controversy,” <cite><i>Fortune</i></cite> (April 11 2017), <a href="http://fortune.com/2017/04/11/united-airlines-stock-drop/">http://fortune.com/2017/04/11/united-airlines-stock-drop/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0104" role="doc-biblioentry"> Siegel &amp; Gale, “Simplicity at Work: Demonstrating the Positive Impact of Simplicity on the Workforce” (2017), <a href="https://simple.siegelgale.com/acton/attachment/9371/f-03e7/1/-/-/-/-/Simplicity%20At%20Work.pdf">https://simple.siegelgale.com/acton/attachment/9371/f-03e7/1/-/-/-/-/Simplicity%20At%20Work.pdf</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0105" role="doc-biblioentry"> Sims, Peter, <cite><i>Little Bets: How Breakthrough Ideas Emerge from Small Discoveries</i></cite> (New York: Random House, 2012).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0106" role="doc-biblioentry"> Sinar, Evan, Wellins, Richard, and Paese, Matthew, “What's the Number 1 Leadership Skill for Overall Success?”<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="255" id="Page_255" role="doc-pagebreak"/> <i>DDI</i> (February 23 2016), <a href="https://www.ddiworld.com/global-offices/united-states/press-room/what-is-the-1-leadership-skill-for-overall-success">https://www.ddiworld.com/global-offices/united-states/press-room/what-is-the-1-leadership-skill-for-overall-success</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0107" role="doc-biblioentry"> Sinek, Simon, “How Great Leaders Inspire Action,” <cite>TED Talk</cite> (September 2009), <a href="https://www.ted.com/talks/simon_sinek_how_great_leaders_inspire_action">https://www.ted.com/talks/simon_sinek_how_great_leaders_inspire_action</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0108" role="doc-biblioentry"> Solomon, Lou, “Many Leaders Shrink from Straight Talk with Employees,” <cite>Interact</cite> (February 2015), <a href="http://interactauthentically.com/new-interact-report-many-leaders-shrink-from-straight-talk-with-employees/">http://interactauthentically.com/new-interact-report-many-leaders-shrink-from-straight-talk-with-employees/</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0109" role="doc-biblioentry"> Solomon, Lou, “Two Thirds of Managers Are Uncomfortable Communicating with Employees,” <cite><i>Harvard Business Review</i></cite> (March 9, 2016), <a href="https://hbr.org/2016/03/two-thirds-of-managers-are-uncomfortable-communicating-with-employees">https://hbr.org/2016/03/two-thirds-of-managers-are-uncomfortable-communicating-with-employees</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0110" role="doc-biblioentry"> Son, Sabrina, “Effective Employee Retention Strategies for the Retail Industry,” TINYcon (August 11, 2016), <a href="https://www.tinypulse.com/blog/effective-employee-retention-strategies-for-the-retail-industry">https://www.tinypulse.com/blog/effective-employee-retention-strategies-for-the-retail-industry</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0111" role="doc-biblioentry"> Sorenson, Susan, and Garman, Keri, “How to Tackle U.S. Employees' Stagnant Engagement,” <cite>Gallup</cite> (June 11, 2013), <a href="http://news.gallup.com/businessjournal/162953/tackle-employees-stagnating-engagement.aspx">http://news.gallup.com/businessjournal/162953/tackle-employees-stagnating-engagement.aspx</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0112" role="doc-biblioentry"> Spira, Jonathan, B., and Feintuch, Joshua, B., “The Cost of Not Paying Attention: How Interruptions Impact Knowledge Worker Productivity,” BaseEx (2005), <a href="http://iorgforum.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/CostOfNotPayingAttention.BasexReport.pdf">http://iorgforum.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/CostOfNotPayingAttention.BasexReport.pdf</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0113" role="doc-biblioentry"> The Staff of the Corporate Executive Board, “The Role of Employee Engagement in the Return of Growth,” <cite><i>Bloomberg</i></cite> (August 13, 2010), <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2010-08-13/the-role-of-employee-engagement-in-the-return-to-growth">https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2010-08-13/the-role-of-employee-engagement-in-the-return-to-growth</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0114" role="doc-biblioentry"> “The State of Enterprise Work,” Harris Poll, Workfront, accessed June 8, 2018, <a href="https://www.workfront.com/resources/the-state-of-enterprise-work">https://www.workfront.com/resources/the-state-of-enterprise-work</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0115" role="doc-biblioentry"> Sturt, David, and Nordstrom, Todd, “Yes, You Should Celebrate Employee Appreciation Day,” accessed June 7, 2018, <a href="https://blog.octanner.com/appreciation-2/yes-you-should-celebrate-employee-appreciation-day">https://blog.octanner.com/appreciation-2/yes-you-should-celebrate-employee-appreciation-day</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0116" role="doc-biblioentry"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="256" id="Page_256" role="doc-pagebreak"/> Sweeney, Deborah, “3 Ways Handwritten Notes Impact the Workplace,” <cite><i>Forbes</i></cite> (April 24, 2012), <a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/deborahsweeney/2012/04/24/3-ways-handwritten-notes-impact-the-workplace/#30fcbf22b4fd">https://www.forbes.com/sites/deborahsweeney/2012/04/24/3-ways-handwritten-notes-impact-the-workplace/#30fcbf22b4fd</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0117" role="doc-biblioentry"> Taylor, Frederick Winslow, <cite><i>The Principles of Scientific Management</i></cite> (New York: Harper and Brothers, 1911).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0118" role="doc-biblioentry"> “THANKS, BUT NO THANKS: Survey Reveals Strangest Forms of Workplace Recognition; Research Also Finds Two in Three Employees Would Leave Their Job If They Didn't Feel Appreciated,” Robert Half, accessed June 7, 2018, <a href="http://rh-us.mediaroom.com/2017-04-12-THANKS-BUT-NO-THANKS-Survey-Reveals-Strangest-Forms-of-Workplace-Recognition-Research-Also-Finds-Two-in-Three-Employees-Would-Leave-Their-Job-If-They-Didnt-Feel-Appreciated">http://rh-us.mediaroom.com/2017–04–12-THANKS-BUT-NO-THANKS-Survey-Reveals-Strangest-Forms-of-Workplace-Recognition-Research-Also-Finds-Two-in-Three-Employees-Would-Leave-Their-Job-If-They-Didnt-Feel-Appreciated</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0119" role="doc-biblioentry"> Tripp &amp; Tyler, “A Conference Call in Real Life,” <cite><i>YouTube</i></cite> (September 21, 2017), <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kNz82r5nyUw">https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kNz82r5nyUw</a></li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0120" role="doc-biblioentry"> Truffaut, Francois, <cite><i>Hitchcock: A Definitive Study of Alfred Hitchcock</i></cite> (New York: Simon &amp; Schuster, 2008).</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0121" role="doc-biblioentry"> Twaronite, Karyn, “Global Generations: A Global Study on Work-Life Challenges across Generations,” <i>EY</i> (2015), <a href="http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-global-generations-a-global-study-on-work-life-challenges-across-generations/%24FILE/EY-global-generations-a-global-study-on-work-life-challenges-across-generations.pdf">http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/EY-global-generations-a-global-study-on-work-life-challenges-across-generations/$FILE/EY-global-generations-a-global-study-on-work-life-challenges-across-generations.pdf</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0122" role="doc-biblioentry"> “The United States in 1900,” Digital History, accessed June 7, 2018, <a href="http://www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/disp_textbook.cfm?smtID=2&amp;psid=3175">http://www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/disp_textbook.cfm?smtID=2&amp;psid=3175</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0123" role="doc-biblioentry"> Useem, Jerry, “Power Causes Brain Damage: How Leaders Lose Mental Capacities—Most Notably for Reading Other People—That Were Essential to Their Rise,” <cite><i>The Atlantic</i></cite> (July 2017), <a href="https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/07/power-causes-brain-damage/528711/?utm_source=nhfb">https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/07/power-causes-brain-damage/528711/?utm_source=nhfb</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0124" role="doc-biblioentry"> USPS, “About the United States Postal Service,” accessed June 6, 2018, <a href="http://about.usps.com/who-we-are/leadership/about-usps.htm">http://about.usps.com/who-we-are/leadership/about-usps.htm</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0125" role="doc-biblioentry"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="257" id="Page_257" role="doc-pagebreak"/> USPS, <cite><i>Strategic Information Plan 2006–2010</i></cite> (September 2005), <a href="https://about.usps.com/strategic-planning/stp2006%E2%80%932010/welcome.html">https://about.usps.com/strategic-planning/stp2006–2010/welcome.html</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0126" role="doc-biblioentry"> Valukas, Anton “Report to Board of Directors of General Motors Company Regarding Ignition Switch Recalls,” Jenner and Block (May 29, 2014), <a href="http://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/1183508/g-m-internal-investigation-report.pdf">http://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/1183508/g-m-internal-investigation-report.pdf</a>, 2.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0127" role="doc-biblioentry"> Van Dyne, Linn, and Pierce, Jon L., “Psychological Ownership and Feelings of Possession: Three Field Studies Predicting Employee Attitudes and Organisational Citizenship Behavior,” <cite><i>Journal of Organizational Behavior</i></cite> 25 (2004): 439–459.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0128" role="doc-biblioentry"> Vozza, Stephanie, “10 Unique Ways Leaders Bond with Their Employees,” <cite><i>Fast Company</i></cite> (September 18, 2015), <a href="https://www.fastcompany.com/3050651/10-unique-ways-leaders-bond-with-employees">https://www.fastcompany.com/3050651/10-unique-ways-leaders-bond-with-employees</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0129" role="doc-biblioentry"> Wiley, Carolyn, “What Motivates Employees According to over 40 Years of Motivation Surveys,” <cite><i>International Journal of Manpower</i></cite> 18, no. 3 (1997): 263–280.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0130" role="doc-biblioentry"> Woods, David, “Poor Communication between Managers and Employees Wastes Time and Impacts Productivity,” <cite><i>HR</i></cite> (January 15, 2010), <a href="http://www.hrmagazine.co.uk/article-details/poor-communication-between-managers-and-employees-wastes-time-and-impacts-productivity">http://www.hrmagazine.co.uk/article-details/poor-communication-between-managers-and-employees-wastes-time-and-impacts-productivity</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0131" role="doc-biblioentry"> Wooden, John, “First, How to Put on Your Socks,” interview by Devin Gordon, <cite><i>Newsweek</i></cite> (October 24, 1999), <a href="http://www.newsweek.com/john-wooden-first-how-put-your-socks-167942">http://www.newsweek.com/john-wooden-first-how-put-your-socks-167942</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0132" role="doc-biblioentry"> Yaeger, John, “John Wooden” (October 1, 2009), <a href="http://donyaeger.com/john-wooden">http://donyaeger.com/john-wooden</a>.</li>&#13;
<li class="bibliographyEntry" epub:type="biblioentry" id="bbiblio-bib-0133" role="doc-biblioentry"> Zappos, “About Zappos Culture,” accessed June 7, 2018, <a href="https://www.zappos.com/core-values">https://www.zappos.com/core-values</a>.</li></ol>&#13;
&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>