<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="acknowledgments" role="doc-acknowledgments">&#13;
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="259" id="Page_259" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a id="bibliography"/>ACKNOWLEDGMENTS</h1></header>&#13;
<section><span id="back-sec-0001"/>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0002">The journey toward success is not a straight line, and neither was the process of writing this book. This project (my first book) has been humbling, exhilarating, and exhausting—and often on the same day. It's something I envisioned doing for a very long time. Now that the vision is a reality, finding words to adequately express the depth of gratitude that I have is surprisingly challenging.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0003">So many people have touched the creation of this book. I've been influenced, shaped, and improved by a tremendous number of people: writers, leaders, teachers, clients, colleagues, and friends. I'm grateful to them all. Within that group, there are some who deserve special mention.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0004">First, a huge thank-you to the tens of thousands of participants in the various leadership seminars I've been privileged to lead. Your willingness to share the good, the bad, and the ugly of what worklife is really like has taught me more about organizational leadership than any graduate program ever could. Special thanks to the leaders whose real stories appear in this book. I've changed certain details to preserve confidentiality.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0005">This book wouldn't have been possible without the team at Eagle's Flight. I'm honored to have worked with them for more than 20 years. They've been incredibly supportive in fostering my professional growth. It's a place where I've gotten to live connection, communication, and collaboration daily. Special thanks to these colleagues past and present: Kristin Abell, Sue Bitton, Rick Boersma, Ian Cornett, Cynthia Davis, Oliver Dawson, Mike DeQuetteville, Diane Essel, Krista Foreman, Paul Goyette, Carl Harkrider, Sandra Herriot, Matt Hill, Roger Joseph, Sue Krautkramer, Keith Lewis, Paulette LoMarro, Bill Martin, Todd McCallum, Lorraine McCrossan, Paul Morris, Nicola Mount, Tim O'Regan, Christy Pettit, Jana Poppe, Nancy Priest, John Reid, Dave Riveness, Jennifer Schmidt, Karen Sonoski, <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="260" id="Page_260" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Bob Speers, Debi Speers, Blair Steinbach, Kevin Stenhouse, Kristin Stewart, Kim Wassal, Kate Webster, Sue Wigston, Brady Wilson, John Wright, and Julie Wylie. Phil Geldart: your vision of how to engage adults to take action has always inspired me. Thank you for creating such a remarkable organization.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0006">Lisa Bodell and the team at Futurethink have been a constant source of encouragement and motivation. Lisa: thank you for modeling the way as an author, leader, and all-around dynamo.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0007">Tony Schwartz and The Energy Project have forever altered how I understand leadership and performance. Tony: the beauty of your writing comes from the depth of your character. You inspire me. It's an honor to be your colleague and friend.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0008">I'm so lucky to have Tess Callero as my agent. From the moment we met, Tess has believed in the vision of this book and has been a tireless advocate ever since. Jeanenne Ray, Kelly Talbot, Susan Geraghty, and the team at Wiley have been true professionals and partners in shepherding the book through the publishing process.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0009">Marina Tersigni designed all the images in these pages. Marina: thank you for your vision and flexibility.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0010">Samie Al-Achrafi, Nina Bainbridge, Dave Barry, Stephen Butler, Victoria Cliche, Andy Cohen, Fiona Coleman, Iain Edward, Hilary Gee, Terence Gilheany, Sue Gray, Bill Lienhard, Sarah Lock, Daniel Ludevig, Ousmane Power-Greene, Paula Quinn, and Paul Winke: thank you for always being so positive and inquisitive about this book's progress. Your friendship and care has meant more than you can imagine.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0011">To have colleagues who are keen to read a whole manuscript and give detailed feedback is a gift worth its weight in gold. Elena Petricone, Mike Scott, Mike Torrie, and Scott Wyler: I'm so moved by your willingness to dig into the nitty-gritty of these ideas and pull them apart so they could get better. This book wouldn't be nearly as good if it wasn't for you.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0012">Launa Schweizer gave feedback as well and has been in my writing corner for well over a decade. She's read through drafts of my other book ideas that have been dreadful, and somehow she found kind things to say to help me grow as a writer. Launa: your feedback is so <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="261" id="Page_261" role="doc-pagebreak"/>good it should get its own book contract. You're an amazing writer and an even more amazing friend.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0013">I'm a big believer that all leadership development starts with personal development. I've been lucky to have tremendous mentors and friends who have supported and challenged me to become a better man. These include Jeff Altman, Paul Bolles-Beaven, John Broucek, Joseph Dicenso, George Faison, Alan Gilburg, Seth Harwood, Boysen Hodgson, Kell Julliard, Josh Knox, Greg Liotta, Rich Menges, Mish Middelmann, Terry Mollner, Harold Norris, Tom Pitner, Jonathan Polgar, Matt Sislowitz, Andy Towlen, Alex Von Bidder, Jon Wilson, JD Wolfe, Gary Zaremba, and Robert Zeller.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0014">I'm moved to acknowledge some of the thinkers who have had a profound effect on how I see the world: Don Beck, Arthur Carmazzi, Jim Collins, Viktor Frankl, Daniel Goleman, Daniel Kahneman, Jim Kouzes, Daniel Pink, Jerry Porras, Barry Posner, and Ken Wilber. If you spotted them lurking in these chapters, you're right.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0015">My family—Gilberte, Paul, Sarah, Park, Ann, Joanna, Tom, Joan, Carol, Serge, Chandra, Theodore, Lucas, and Kaia—have supported of all my various endeavors through the decades. I hope this book finally explains what it is that I actually do for a living.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0016">My daughter, Miranda, has been a great teacher of empathy and connection. Miranda: thanks for challenging me to step out of my comfort zone and practice fewer golden rules and more platinum rules. Your sensitivity and care for others inspires me.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0017">My son, Alexander, is a role model of clear and open communication. Alex: thank you for the courage to give honest feedback on how I can be an even better dad. I've grown a tremendous amount because of you.</p>&#13;
<p id="back-para-0018">Mary Clark has been my partner and teacher of collaboration for 20 years. It's been said that leaders should surround themselves with people smarter than they are. Mary's brilliance is matched only by her unbridled enthusiasm and willingness to keep showing up. Mary: thank you for being such a rock through all of these years of change and growth. I'm lucky to be on your team. And thanks for saying yes to starting a 24/7 child-care center together. The kids are turning out pretty well.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>