<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="contributors">&#13;
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="263" id="Page_263" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a id="bibliography"/>ABOUT THE AUTHOR</h1></header>&#13;
<section><span id="babout-sec-0001"/>&#13;
<p id="babout-para-0002">A sought-after keynote speaker, facilitator, and coach, Alain Hunkins is a leadership expert who connects the science of high performance with the performing art of leadership. Leaders trust him to help unlock their potential and expand their influence, leading to superior results, increased engagement, higher levels of retention, and greater organizational and personal satisfaction. He has a gift for translating complex concepts from psychology, neuroscience, and organizational behavior into simple, practical tools that can be applied on the job.</p>&#13;
<p id="babout-para-0003">Over the course of his more than 20-year career, Alain has worked with tens of thousands of leaders in more than 25 countries and has served clients in all industries, including 42 Fortune 100 companies. He delivers dynamic keynotes, seminars, and workshops covering a variety of leadership topics, including communication, team-building, conflict management, peak performance, innovation, motivation, and change.</p>&#13;
<p id="babout-para-0004">In addition to <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> (Wiley), Alain's authored more than 400 articles and has been published by the Association for Talent Development, CEO Refresher, and the American Management Association.</p>&#13;
<p id="babout-para-0005">With his Master's in fine arts in acting from the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee's Professional Theater Training Program and a BA in English from Amherst College, Alain also serves on the faculty of Duke Corporate Education, ranked number 2 worldwide in 2019 by <i>Financial Times</i> on its list of customized executive education programs. Alain has also lectured at University of North Carolina's Kenan-Flagler's business school and Columbia University.</p>&#13;
<p>A certified co-leader for ManKind Project International, a nonprofit whose mission is to help men lead lives of service to their families, communities, and workplaces, Alain resides in Northampton, <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="264" id="Page_264" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Massachusetts, with his wife and two children. For resources on how Alain can help you and your organization, please visit</p><ul id="babout-list-0001">&#13;
<li id="babout-li-0001"><a href="http://www.alainhunkins.com">www.alainhunkins.com</a></li>&#13;
<li id="babout-li-0002"><a href="mailto:@AlainHunkins">@AlainHunkins</a></li>&#13;
<li id="babout-li-0003"><a href="http://linkedin.com/in/alainhunkins">linkedin.com/in/alainhunkins</a></li>&#13;
</ul>&#13;
</section>&#13;
&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>