<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section>&#13;
<section><span id="ffirs00-sec-0001"/>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0002">“Alain Hunkins<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="i" id="Page_i" role="doc-pagebreak"/> brings years of experience to the topic of leadership, and has important insights into the process of becoming someone whose influence brings greater success, heightened communication, and larger empathy to the whole organization. <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is a great book for those starting out on the leadership journey or managers who need a refresher in what connected, effective leadership really means.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Daniel H. Pink, author of</i> When <i>and</i> Drive</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0004">“One of the most practical books on the planet when it comes to leadership and how to make a difference. Full of great examples, truths, and insights readily accessible and applicable on both an individual and organizational level. Highly recommend.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Barry Z. Posner, PhD, Professor of Leadership Leavey School of Business, Santa Clara University, coauthor,</i> The Leadership Challenge<i/></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0006">“<i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is a valuable and enlightened guide for anyone with the courage and passion to lead with an open mind and open heart. Alain Hunkins writes from rich personal experience with conviction and credibility.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Danny Meyer, founder and CEO, Union Square Hospitality Group</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0008">“The pace of change and the ever-present threat of disruption pose daunting challenges for business leaders. <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> offers clear, real-life advice to help navigate these tumultuous times. Seasoned CEOs and first-time managers will benefit from its practical wisdom.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Frits Dirk van Paasschen, former CEO of Starwood Hotels &amp; Resorts and The Coors Brewing Company and Amazon bestselling author of</i> The Disruptors' Feast</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0010">“Leaders need to continuously improve their fluency in the language of leadership. <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is a magnificent guide to help you translate leadership ideas into action. It manages to be smart, engaging, practical, and authentic all at the same time. If you're a leader who wants to grow your effectiveness and impact, get Cracking!”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Marshall Goldsmith,</i> New York Times <i>#1 bestselling author of</i> Triggers, Mojo, <i>and</i> What Got You Here Won't Get You There</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0012">“Alain Hunkins is a supremely gifted communicator, and through engaging stories and effortless prose he brings to life essential lessons of leadership in <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i>. Alain's framework is at once elegantly simple, but at the same time well-grounded in research and highly applicable in practice. It's also just plain fun to read—one of the most enjoyable leadership books I've read all year. I found myself eagerly turning the pages for more of Alain's wit and wisdom, and I am<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="ii" id="Page_ii" role="doc-pagebreak"/> confident your experience will be the same. Five stars for <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i>.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Jim Kouzes, coauthor of</i> The Leadership Challenge<i>, and the Dean's Executive Fellow of Leadership, Leavey School of Business, Santa Clara University</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0014">“How to lead well shouldn't be a mystery. <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> lives up to its title—it shares a wealth of real-world information that's valuable for leaders at all levels in any organization.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Sydney Finkelstein, Professor of Leadership at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College and author of the bestselling book</i> Superbosses</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0016">“This wonderful book shows you how to communicate, influence, and persuade others faster and more effectively than ever before. Get more things done, faster and easier than ever.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Brian Tracy, chairman and CEO of Brian Tracy International, author of</i> How the Best Leaders Lead</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0018">“This book really does help crack the leadership code in a way that is practical, easy to understand, and easy to apply. I am a proponent of the concepts of connection, communication, and collaboration as the primary tools of leadership. You'll be a better leader for reading this book.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Mark Sanborn, president, Sanborn &amp; Associates, author of</i> The Fred Factor <i>and</i> The Potential Principle</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0020">“In an era of uncertainty and change, leadership is all the more vital and its personal mastery all the more essential. The formula for doing so can seem elusive, however, and Alain Hunkins has given us a practical roadmap. For learning to be self-consciously courageous, for taking charge even if you are not fully or formally in charge, <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is the driver's manual.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Michael Useem, Faculty Director, Wharton Leadership Center, Professor of Management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and co-author of</i> Mastering Catastrophic Risk <i>and</i> Go Long</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0022">“Leadership excellence starts with fully understanding the fundamentals. <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> shines a brilliant spotlight on the fundamentals of Connection, Communication, and Collaboration. Blazing with insights, inspiration, and instruction, it's a comprehensive guide on how to become a better leader.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Pat Williams, Orlando Magic founder and senior vice president, author of</i> Character Carved in Stone</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0024">“Alain<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="iii" id="Page_iii" role="doc-pagebreak"/> Hunkins has written an excellent guide for aspirational leaders. Filled with practical advice and wonderful stories, <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is a must-read primer that cuts to the core of the challenges most leaders face. Hunkins' emphasis on the them-versus-me side of leadership is inspiring.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Allen Morrison, PhD, CEO and Director General, Thunderbird School of Global Management</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0026">“Well written and well researched—a practical guide for leaders who want to improve on the fundamentals and be better at what they do.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Bruce Tulgan, CEO of Rainmaker Thinking and bestselling author of</i> It's Okay to Be the Boss</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0028">“Not many leadership books make you laugh and cry and then compel you to take an honest look in the mirror. Alain Hunkins will gently but expertly help you reflect and ask yourself, “What kind of leader do I want to be?” And then, he'll tell you how to do it.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Suzanne Bates, CEO of Bates Communications and author of</i> All the Leader You Can Be</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0030">“<i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> delivers the fuel you need to propel your career forward quickly. Hunkins shares great insight and useful tools to becoming the leader you've always wanted to be.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Jon Gordon, bestselling author of</i> The Energy Bus <i>and</i> The Power of Positive Leadership</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0032">“If you're a time-starved leader looking to amp up your effectiveness, put this book on your reading list. With actionable tips and practical tools, <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> delivers a roadmap for propelling your career forward.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Lisa Bodell, CEO of Futurethink and bestselling author of</i> Why Simple Wins</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0034">“In <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i>, Alain Hunkins raises the bar on what a leadership book should be. With an authentic voice gained from walking his own leadership path, Hunkins weaves together ideas from business, psychology, neuroscience, and behavioral economics in a surprisingly engaging way. You'll be inspired not just to think differently, but to act differently.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Kevin Kruse,</i> New York Times <i>bestselling author of</i> Employee Engagement 2.0 <i>and founder and CEO of LEADx</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0036">“<i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is a treasure chest of leadership insight that will help you personally and professionally. Told in a refreshingly candid style, you'll benefit from Alain Hunkins' 20+ years working with thousands of leaders. The stories<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="iv" id="Page_iv" role="doc-pagebreak"/> opened my heart and the principles apply to my daily leadership practice. I'm delighted to recommend this book.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Dan Rockwell, author of</i> Leadership Freak <i>blog</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0038">“What a terrific book on leadership. It is substantive and useful to anyone who wants to create capacity in others.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Dr. Nido R. Qubein, president, High Point University</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0040">“Most people want to be good leaders—but what does that actually mean? With warmth and good humor, Alain Hunkins reveals that being a great leader comes down to the small choices we make every day. <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> will open your eyes to the obvious and not-so-obvious reasons why leading today is so difficult, help you better think about and interact with everyday challenges, and provide tools you can employ right away.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—German Herrera, Industrial Practice Leader, North America, Egon Zehnder</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0042">“<i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is an insightful guide for leaders. Alain Hunkins offers sage advice for leaders on connection, communication, and collaboration rooted in decades of his leadership coaching and consulting experience. His examples and stories provide memorable lessons for leaders to create more productive and healthy organizations.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Christine Porath, Professor of Management, Georgetown University and the author of</i> Mastering Civility: A Manifesto for the Workplace</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0044">“Brimming with hard-won wisdom and practical tools, I will be returning to <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> for years to come in my journey to be a more conscious and effective leader.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Jonah Sachs, founder of Free Range Studios and author of</i> Winning the Story Wars <i>and</i> Unsafe Thinking</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0046">“<i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is as enjoyable to read as it is practical to apply. Hunkins engages the reader with wit, wisdom, and timely insights gleaned from his decades of experience successfully guiding leaders through challenging situations.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Arthur Carmazzi, bestselling author and ranked as one of the Global Top-Ten Most Influential Leadership Gurus 2018 by Global Gurus</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0049">“It is with pleasure that I endorse Alain Hunkins' perceptive and revealing book, <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i>. As the third-generation CEO of my own business, I found his writing to be particularly resonant, and I was quick to share Hunkins' insights<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="v" id="Page_v" role="doc-pagebreak"/> with my sons, who I hope will one day be fourth-generation leaders of my company!</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0050">Hunkins' voice is deceptively simple as he delves into the complex communication issues that plague organizations today. In a straightforward manner he shares why companies need to integrate—and implement—greater empathy, collaboration, listening techniques, understanding, etc. into their corporate culture. His message is on-target and valuable. In fact, Hunkins imparts so many words of wisdom—combined with so many excellent tools—I had to stop highlighting them all before I ran out of ink! This book is a must-read for anyone in leadership or contemplating leadership in today's world.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Mitchell Kaneff, CEO and chairman, Arkay Packaging</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0052">“An enlightening book on bettering meaningful and purpose-driven leadership traits in everyday life—home and workplace. Almost immediately I began to reflect on interactions of communication with those in my world. Hunkins has nailed it! A must-read for those learning—which is everyone in a position in life of influence and persuasion. Moms, dads, executives, clergy, political leaders, community organizers, and many more will be well served reading <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> and evolving as a result.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—John Ohanesian, president &amp; CEO, Lear Capital</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0054">“Superb book! <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> does much to simplify leadership for all of us who practice it and teach it. Alain Hunkins' work is extraordinarily narrative—I am inspired by how much of his life he shares with us, and you will be, too. He pulls together so many ideas in the leadership space, and does so in a such readable, engaging format, that this book represents real value. This book will not exhaust you, but it will activate you and stimulate your desire to lead as it builds your capacity to lead. Hunkins' framing of leadership as Connection, Communication, Collaboration is among the most useful structures I've seen used in books that develop leaders. I enjoyed every minute and every page of this book.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Thomas A. Kolditz, Brigadier General, US Army (ret) and executive director, Doerr Institute for New Leaders, Rice University</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0056">“I truly enjoyed this book! With the world changing at such a rapid pace, this is a book every leader must read. Through entertaining storytelling of situations we can all relate to, Alain Hunkins reminds us that leadership is a journey of constant and never-ending improvement. By using a framework of Connection, Communication, and Collaboration, he reminds us of the fundamentals of great leadership. Alain's exposure to a wide array of industries and leaders going through times of change has allowed him to see where some leaders have gotten this right and<span epub:type="pagebreak" title="vi" id="Page_vi" role="doc-pagebreak"/> others have not. This book is a gift for anyone interested in being a great leader to be able to benefit from Alain's insights he has collected over the years.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Terri Pearce, head of Learning and Talent Development, Human Resources, HSBC Bank USA</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0058">“<i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> offers a refreshing, practical approach to leadership that will help you develop both personally and professionally.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Dr. Tasha Eurich,</i> New York Times <i>bestselling author of</i> Insight <i>and</i> Bankable Leadership</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0060">“Written expressly for today's leader who is too busy to read it! The world of work has changed as have all the motivators for working in it, and the philosophies underpinning the old ways no longer serve anyone. Hunkins acknowledges leaders face challenges on multiple fronts in this faster, flatter world: ever increasing pace of change, increased expectations of workers, and customers' equal access to information and platform to share their views. Today's leader must be willing and able to face those challenges with empathy, as a human.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Cheryl Reich, senior director, Organizational Effectiveness, Broadridge Financial Solutions</i></p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0062">“<i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> brings us a down-to-earth, experience-rich guide for how to make leadership both impactful and effective. Hunkins presents the challenges of today's leadership coupled with three guiding principles for leadership that directly meets these challenges: Connection, Communication, and Collaboration. The book is chockfull of useful examples and pragmatic tools, tips, and techniques for making these principles a real part of your leadership signature. <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> is an essential element in your leadership library to both inspire and engage in effective leadership actions for today's business world.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Jane Dutton, Robert L. Kahn Distinguished University Professor Emerita of Business Administration and Psychology, Ross School of Business, University of Michigan and author of</i> Energize Your Workplace</p> </blockquote>&#13;
<blockquote class="extract">&#13;
<p id="ffirs00-para-0064">“Leadership is a deeply human endeavor, and Hunkins' <i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i> reflects that critical idea while offering very practical ideas and tactics to bring your humanity into your leadership. It's a worthwhile read for leaders wanting to show up as their best, most impactful selves.”</p>&#13;
<p class="right"><i>—Peter Bregman, bestselling author of</i> Eighteen Minutes <i>and</i> Four Seconds</p> </blockquote>&#13;
</section>&#13;
&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>