<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section class="copyright" epub:type="copyright-page">&#13;
<p id="ffirs01-para-0004"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="x" id="Page_x" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Copyright © 2020 by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc. All rights reserved.</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0005">Published by John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0006">Published simultaneously in Canada.</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0007">No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750–8400, fax (978) 646–8600, or on the Web at <a href="http://www.copyright.com">www.copyright.com</a>. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley &amp; Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748–6011, fax (201) 748–6008, or online at <a href="http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions">http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions</a>.</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0008">Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0009">For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762–2974, outside the United States at (317) 572–3993 or fax (317) 572–4002.</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0010">Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased, you may download this material at <a href="http://booksupport.wiley.com">http://booksupport.wiley.com</a>. For more information about Wiley products, visit <a href="http://www.wiley.com">www.wiley.com</a>.</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0011"><b><i>Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</i></b></p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-1112">Names: Hunkins, Alain, 1968- author.</p> &#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-1012">Title: Cracking the leadership code / Alain Hunkins.</p> &#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-2012">Description: First Edition. | Hoboken : Wiley, 2020. | Includes bibliographical references and index.</p> &#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-2212">Identifiers: LCCN 2019051506 (print) | LCCN 2019051507 (ebook) | ISBN 9781119675549 (hardback) | ISBN 9781119675563 (adobe pdf) | ISBN 9781119675556 (epub)</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-2512">Subjects: LCSH: Leadership. | Communication in management.</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-2612">Classification: LCC HD57.7 .H856 2020 (print) | LCC HD57.7 (ebook) | DDC 658.4/092–dc23</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-2812">LC record available at <a href="https://lccn.loc.gov/2019051506">https://lccn.loc.gov/2019051506</a></p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-2912">LC ebook record available at <a href="https://lccn.loc.gov/2019051507">https://lccn.loc.gov/2019051507</a></p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0016">Cover Design: Wiley</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-0015">Cover Image: © 3D_generator/Getty Images</p>&#13;
<p id="ffirs1-para-1015">Author Photo: Maurice Jager © Alain Hunkins</p>&#13;
&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>