<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="introduction" role="doc-introduction">&#13;
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="1" id="Page_1" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a id="fm1"/><span class="chapterTitle">INTRODUCTION</span><br/><span class="chapterSubTitle"><i>Deciphering the Code: Why I Wrote This Book</i></span></h1></header>&#13;
<section><span id="flast-sec-0001"/>&#13;
&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0003">In 2007, a large, well-known organization had a problem. Their service wasn't keeping pace with their customers' expectations. The organization's leadership had to act.</p>&#13;
<p>And did they ever. As part of their 87-page strategic transformation plan, they wrote:</p>&#13;
<blockquote>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0005">Customers form expectations on critical attributes such as waiting time in line based on their experience with other similar services, and compare (our) performance to best-in-class providers.<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0001" id="R_flast-note-0001"><sup>1</sup></a></p>&#13;
</blockquote>&#13;
<p>In other words, customers were complaining that they had to wait too long in line. The organization's leadership knew, however, that defining the problem was not enough. They had to do something about it. In a declaration of intent, they confidently pronounced that they were</p>&#13;
<blockquote>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0007">committed to changing with its customers, designing new products to meet new needs, and creating new solutions that customers value.<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0002" id="R_flast-note-0002"><sup>2</sup></a></p>&#13;
</blockquote>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0008">It all sounded good.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0009">These published promises mirrored the organization's published “core set of enduring goals that guide all of (our) strategic initiatives and continuous improvement efforts.”<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0003" id="R_flast-note-0003"><sup>3</sup></a></p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0010"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="2" id="Page_2" role="doc-pagebreak"/>They were using all the right words. So what did they actually end up doing?</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0011">One of the biggest customer complaints was long wait times to talk with a customer service representative at their 37,000 retail locations.</p>&#13;
<p>To address the issue, these bold leaders executed their most innovative idea:</p><ul class="none" id="flast-list-0001">&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0001">They removed the clocks from the walls of every location.</li>&#13;
</ul>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0013">No, really.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0014">That's what the United States Postal Service did.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0015">Shockingly, the clock removal did not make customers happier about their wait times. There were <i>87 pages</i> of strategic planning, and removing the clocks was the best solution leadership could come up with.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0016">Maybe the United States Postal Service thought people would forget they carried their own timepieces and wouldn't notice how long they were still waiting in line. Maybe they thought that without clocks on the walls, people would act as though they were in a casino and put all their money on Forever stamps. We really don't know what the leadership at the U.S. Postal Service was thinking.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0017">The clock removals set off a customer backlash.<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0004" id="R_flast-note-0004"><sup>4</sup></a> Leadership tried to contain the outrage, saying this was part of a national effort to have all post office lobbies look the same. Yet no matter what the spin, removing clocks to address long wait times is absurd.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0018">It's easy to blame the Postal Service blunder on poor strategy or bad execution. But who creates the strategy? Leaders. Who maps out the execution? Leaders.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0019">If you work in an organization, this clock-removing story may not seem all that surprising. Leaders do strange things all the time that leave employees scratching their heads in disbelief and muttering, “What were they thinking?” Although we don't know for sure, there's one thing we do know: the state of leadership is poor.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
<section><span id="flast-sec-0002"/>&#13;
<h2 id="head-2-82">MIRED IN MEDIOCRITY</h2>&#13;
<p>Ketchum, Inc. is a nearly 100-year-old global public relations firm. Every year, Ketchum interviews more than 25,000 people from 22 <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="3" id="Page_3" role="doc-pagebreak"/>industries on five continents to ask them what they think about their leaders. They've found the following from their research:</p><ul id="flast-list-0002">&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0002"><b>Only 23%</b> believe their leaders are leading well. (This number has not been above 25% in the last five years.)</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0003"><b>Only 31%</b> believe leaders communicate well.</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0004"><b>Only 17%</b> have confidence that leadership will improve in the upcoming year.<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0005" id="R_flast-note-0005"><sup>5</sup></a></li>&#13;
</ul>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0021">Ketchum's findings are not the exception, but the rule. Other research corroborates the shoddy state that leadership is in. Only 37% of the population believes CEOs are credible,<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0006" id="R_flast-note-0006"><sup>6</sup></a> and less than half (48%) of employees report their top management does a good job of providing effective leadership.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0022">It gets worse. Bad leadership has a ripple effect—particularly on those being led. Worldwide 87% of employees are not engaged,<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0007" id="R_flast-note-0007"><sup>7</sup></a> 54% of employees claim they don't regularly get respect from their leaders,<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0008" id="R_flast-note-0008"><sup>8</sup></a> and less than half of full-time workers place a great deal of trust in their employers.<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0009" id="R_flast-note-0009"><sup>9</sup></a></p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0023">The future of leadership also looks bleak. More than half (55%) of organizations are struggling with a talent shortage.<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0010" id="R_flast-note-0010"><sup>10</sup></a> Only 18% of HR professionals rate their leadership bench strength as strong or very strong,<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0011" id="R_flast-note-0011"><sup>11</sup></a> and 71% said their leaders are not ready to lead their organizations into the future.<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0012" id="R_flast-note-0012"><sup>12</sup></a></p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0024">No leader sets out to be mediocre. No one shows up to work and thinks, “Today I want to make someone else's life miserable.” No one says, “Today, I'm going to be a crummy communicator. None of my direct reports will trust me, and they'll assume that my overall leadership will get even worse in the future.” For the most part, people genuinely want to do a good job.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0025">Unfortunately, good intentions don't translate into good results. Too many leaders don't understand what it takes for them to succeed. They mean well and work hard, but they lack the proper mind-set and tools.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0026">Consider this startling finding: a poll of 2,058 adults reported that 69% of managers are often uncomfortable communicating with employees. Isn't communication a basic part of the job? Lou Solomon, CEO of Interact (the company that conducted the survey), <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="4" id="Page_4" role="doc-pagebreak"/>elaborated, noting, “Many managers are uncomfortable with becoming vulnerable, recognizing achievements, delivering the ‘company line,’ giving clear directions, crediting others with having good ideas, speaking face to face, and having difficult feedback conversations in general.”<a href="b02.xhtml#flast-note-0013" id="R_flast-note-0013"><sup>13</sup></a></p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0027">Leading well is extremely difficult. If it were easy, more people would be doing it. Think back on your own life experience. Of the leaders you've worked with, how many would you rate as excellent? How many were middling? How many were eminently forgettable?</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0028">If you find that most of your memories fall on the negative end of the spectrum, you can take comfort in the fact that you're not alone. For most people, working in organizations with lousy leaders is just another day at the office.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0029">But it doesn't have to be this way. There's a path out of the muddle of mediocrity. Great leaders aren't born—they're made. If you're committed, you can learn and apply specific tools to improve how you lead.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
<section><span id="flast-sec-0003"/>&#13;
<h2 id="head-2-83">THE PURPOSE OF CRACKING THE LEADERSHIP CODE</h2>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0030">The goal of this book is to shorten your leadership learning curve and accelerate your leadership growth. Its content is drawn from two decades of fieldwork. I've had the good fortune of getting to work with and learn from a tremendous number of leaders and teachers, and this book represents a distillation of that knowledge. My hope is that the insights and tools I offer in this book will help you reap the rewards that exceptional leadership brings.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0031">In this book, I won't stick to the flat, two-dimensional world of leadership theory. I'll share what works and what doesn't work. At times, it's going to get messy and ugly. Above all, it's going to be real. Because leadership—authentic, conscious leadership—is hard work. But it's a journey that's worth the effort.</p>&#13;
<p>You'll read stories and learn concepts that are straightforward and practical. You'll have an opportunity to look in the mirror, take stock of your current skillset, and improve on it. You'll gain tools that you <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="5" id="Page_5" role="doc-pagebreak"/>can apply immediately in your work for tangible results. These tools will enable you to accomplish the following:</p><ul id="flast-list-0003">&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0005">Improve employee engagement</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0006">Increase productivity</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0007">Decrease levels of employee turnover</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0008">Expand influence</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0009">Decrease stress</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0010">Improve overall work-life satisfaction</li>&#13;
</ul>&#13;
</section>&#13;
<section><span id="flast-sec-0004"/>&#13;
<h2 id="head-2-84">KEYS TO READING THIS BOOK</h2>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0033"><b><i>Cracking the Leadership Code</i></b> is divided into four sections. <a href="p01.xhtml">Part I</a> provides context for the challenges faced by today's leaders. In <a href="c01.xhtml">Chapter 1</a>, you'll be introduced to the framework of the master keys: connection, communication, and collaboration. <a href="c02.xhtml">Chapter 2</a> shares a brief history of organizational leadership, and explains how you've unknowingly inherited the bad habits of previous generations of leaders. <a href="c03.xhtml">Chapter 3</a> discusses the cultural and societal forces that caused that Old-School leadership to stop working, and why leaders are struggling to keep up with the speed of changing times.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0034">In <a href="p02.xhtml">Part II</a>, you will learn how to decrypt the first of the essential leadership principles: <b>connection</b>. <a href="c04.xhtml">Chapter 4</a> discusses empathy, and explains why improving this soft skill can deliver huge business benefits. <a href="c05.xhtml">Chapter 5</a> details the daily challenges leaders face in practicing empathy and how to overcome them. <a href="c06.xhtml">Chapter 6</a> unscrambles the concept of leadership credibility—what it is, why it's important, and how you can build it.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0035"><a href="p03.xhtml">Part III</a> takes aim at one of the most challenging parts of leadership: <b>communication</b>. <a href="c07.xhtml">Chapter 7</a> untangles the confusing conundrum of communication. <a href="c08.xhtml">Chapter 8</a> cracks the communication code, giving you six keys to improve your communication immediately.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0036"><a href="p04.xhtml">Part IV</a> dives deep into the third essential leadership principle: <b>collaboration</b>. <a href="c09.xhtml">Chapter 9</a> clarifies motivation—what it is, what it isn't, and the common traps that leaders fall into when trying to motivate others. <a href="c10.xhtml">Chapter 10</a> offers a new model for motivational leadership: <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="6" id="Page_6" role="doc-pagebreak"/>being a motivational choice architect. It shares the two primary needs all people have: safety and energy. <a href="c11.xhtml">Chapter 11</a> describes the two essential needs that need to be met to enable high performance: purpose and ownership. <a href="c12.xhtml">Chapter 12</a> explains the employee experience and how you can influence it to improve teamwork and collaboration. <a href="c13.xhtml">Chapter 13</a> addresses the question no one wants to ask: how can I implement these great ideas when I'm already too busy? This chapter shares tools, tips, and techniques on how to make things simpler. At the end of each chapter is a resources section that distills the big ideas. You can use this to begin crafting your own personal leadership development plan.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0037">Since the new millennium, I've worked with thousands of teams, and tens of thousands of leaders in 25 countries around the world. I've coached people from frontline employees to C-Suite executives to titans of Wall Street to dog food factory workers. I've worked with teams as small as two and have led workshops for more than 2,000 participants. I've worked with every industry you can think of, as well as some industries you probably don't know exist.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0038">In my role, I've been given an all-access pass to hundreds of companies. While working behind the scenes, I'd get confidential briefings on a team or the company's most pressing business issues. I'd meet with key players, who'd confess their deepest dysfunctions and admit what was broken and needed fixing.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0039">After gathering all that data, I'd search for clues, on the hunt to truly understand these people and teams. I fervently wanted to find out what made them tick, because I wanted to help them to tick better. Then, I'd go back and work with the individuals, teams, and/or whole companies.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0040">On the surface, each team's and company's situation and issues were unique. However, as I began to work with more and more clients, I started to see that they weren't so unusual after all. Because each company had people, the key to improving their performance ultimately came back to the same set of root causes: some dimension of leadership. My task was to figure out which dimension and how to help them apply it in their work environment.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
<section><span id="flast-sec-0005"/>&#13;
<h2 id="head-2-85">THE STORY BEHIND MY STORY</h2>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0041"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="7" id="Page_7" role="doc-pagebreak"/>My entire life, I've been gripped by the question, “Why do people do what they do?” No matter how challenging or stressful the situation, I've always wanted to make sense of it. The need to make sense of stress goes way back for me. It started in my early childhood.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0042">To preface this, my family loved me and fed me and housed me and did the best they could. However, I grew up in an apartment filled with screaming, stressful, dysfunctional leaders—that is, the adults. Even as a kid, I knew there had to be a better way. I could see the difference when I went to visit my friends. My friends' families would talk and listen to each other. They'd do stuff as a family together. Why couldn't my family be more like them? Why couldn't my mother and grandmother lead us more effectively?</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0043">Much of the time, my home life was like a toxic work environment. There was either yelling or a complete lack of communication. As a young child, I strived to please my mother and grandmother, thinking that if I did whatever they asked, then they'd be appeased and things would get better. As I got older, I realized that no matter how well I followed their instructions, my behavior didn't change their behavior. When I was the “good employee,” I still got the toxic treatment. Eventually, I checked out. I mentally and emotionally detached.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0044">That primary stressful setting affected me greatly. I became highly attuned to other people's emotions and behaviors. I studied psychology and theater—disciplines that focus on human behavior and motivation. I learned about group dynamics and facilitation skills. And although I couldn't use all those skills to help my first “workplace,” I've been putting them to good use ever since.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0045">What I've learned is that if you dig deep enough, there's always a story behind the dysfunction. If you can find a way to bring that story out of the shadow and into the light, there's the potential to change things. You can be freed up to lead with a story and not be stuck leading from the story.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0046">In my case, I didn't really understand what was going on with my mother and grandmother until I was an adult. They'd hidden their <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="8" id="Page_8" role="doc-pagebreak"/>stories from me when I was a child—maybe in an attempt to protect me. But their stories influenced our every interaction nonetheless.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0047">I learned that my mother and grandmother were both Holocaust survivors. They had their lives torn apart by the horrors of war. Their crime? Being Jewish and living in Nazi-occupied Belgium during World War II.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0048">My grandmother gave my mother away to the Belgian underground resistance to hide her as best they could. At the age of seven years old, my mother had her hair dyed blond and was given a false identity and address to memorize in case of capture. She was moved from orphanages to foster homes to convents to barns every few months. This went on for three years.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0049">Meanwhile, my grandmother was hidden separately. But eventually she was discovered, arrested, and imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp. She was one of the lucky ones; she was liberated at the end of the war. When my mother and grandmother were finally reunited in a Red Cross displaced persons camp, they pieced together the terrible truth: nearly all the rest of their family had perished.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0050">You can imagine how living through such experiences would change your attitude and behaviors about the world. My grandmother lived the rest of her life vacillating between shell shock and rage. She could not move beyond her past. Yet she also served as the matriarch and head of our family—the person responsible for steering the rest of us and influencing our decisions.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0051">I view my grandmother with compassion and can entirely understand why she behaved the way she did. However, no matter how much I loved her, there's no question that she was my first exposure to toxic leadership.</p>&#13;
<p>Ever since, in my personal and professional life, I've been driven to understand what actions:</p><ul id="flast-list-0004">&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0011">Produce or destroy trust</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0012">Improve or stifle communication</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0013">Build bridges or walls</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0014">Create engagement or apathy</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0015">Create high performance or high dysfunction</li>&#13;
</ul>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0053"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="9" id="Page_9" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Each person in an organization carries his or her own history. In working with clients and learning their stories, I've seen patterns emerge—specifically, patterns in behavior. I've seen how these behaviors are reinforced by leaders and solidify into a company's culture. This culture would then in turn influence interactions each employee would have with coworkers, colleagues, and customers. This translates into the experience of “what it's like to work here.” Although these forces are invisible, they impact on everything around them.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
<section><span id="flast-sec-0006"/>&#13;
<h2 id="head-2-86">CRACKING THE CODE</h2>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0054">I've watched countless leaders struggle, waylaid by the same behavioral traps over and over. Try as they might, they can't get out of the story and solve these problems on their own.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0055">But every so often, I meet a leader who, like Neo in <i>The Matrix</i>, sees through the complexity and gets what leadership is all about. Matt was such a leader.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0056">Matt was a district manager (DM) for a global fast-food restaurant chain. He'd been with the company for 23 years, and he was not just a DM. He was <i>the</i> DM. That is, he was the number-1 top-ranked and -performing DM in the entire company for the past two years running. Out of 100 leaders, he was at the top of the chart.</p>&#13;
<p>That “chart,” by the way, is no mere metaphor. In Matt's company, every DM knew how they ranked—<i>daily</i>—on a “hot list” (a battery of performance measures) against their peers. These metrics included the following:</p><ul id="flast-list-0005">&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0016">Revenue per store</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0017">Cost of goods</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0018">Customer satisfaction</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0019">Drive-thru wait times</li>&#13;
<li id="flast-li-0020">Employee retention</li>&#13;
</ul>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0058">Matt wasn't always number 1—or even close. For years, he ranked in the bottom half of the hot list. Something had changed in Matt, and I needed to find out what it was.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0059"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="10" id="Page_10" role="doc-pagebreak"/>It's been said that “success leaves clues.” Matt was a potential role model for his 100 peers. I wanted to make sure they'd learn what he already knew. I asked Matt, “What do you do now as a leader that helped you to become number 1? What is it that your peers in the middle and bottom of the pack aren't doing?”</p>&#13;
<p>That question was no accident. A key to leadership development is to focus on behavior—what you say and what you do. He replied,</p>&#13;
<blockquote>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0061">Every single DM has got a lot to do. Each one of us is managing 8 to 10 stores. With all the numbers on the hot list, it's easy to focus on what's not measuring up and be in constant fix-it task mode.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0062">That's what I did when I started, I'd hustle from store to store in task mode. I'd come in and look for what was broken and instantly try to fix it. I thought that was my job as “the big boss.”</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0063">What I've learned is that people don't appreciate me breathing down their necks. They don't want a fixer: they want a leader.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0064">I've been doing this for a long time now. Over the years, I've realized that the key to making the numbers is to stop focusing on the numbers. My job is to focus on the people—because it's the people who make the numbers.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0065">When I first started out, I used to walk past people on the restaurant floor, and I didn't really pay attention to them. I just saw them as worker bees. Then, when they'd up and quit, I had no idea why. I was totally clueless. They might have been really upset or unhappy, and I would have completely missed it.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0066">The key to all of it is making people your priority. If you do that, not only will your results improve, your life will get a whole lot less stressful.</p>&#13;
</blockquote>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0067">Everything Matt said made sense. But it wasn't enough. It was positive, but vague, like a feel-good, self-help book. He wasn't sharing the specifics of what he said or did that made the difference. During a pause, I jumped in to probe deeper, revisiting his point about focusing on the people. “When you're focused on them,” I inquired, “what is it that you say and do?”</p>&#13;
<p><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="11" id="Page_11" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Matt stopped for a moment and took a big breath. He replied,</p>&#13;
<blockquote>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0069">When I come into the store, I spend time with my people and ask them about their lives outside of work. I really listen to what they say, because how they answer tells me what's important to them, whether that's their kids, or a sports team, or whatever. Then, the next time I come in, I can start the conversation by asking about that topic, and we bond over it. By starting there, the team knows I care about them. Then, I listen to what's been going on in the store, and together we figure out ways to solve their issues.</p>&#13;
</blockquote>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0070">I'd hit pay-dirt. Matt had shared his strategy for success. It was simple, clear, and replicable. I almost had what I needed to teach the other DMs how to do what he did. We weren't quite yet done.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0071">From experience, I knew that just giving a list of to-dos to the other DMs wouldn't be enough. They also needed to learn the pitfalls they would face as they tried their hand with these new skills. Matt's road to the top of the chart hadn't been a straight line—he'd had his share of bumps along the way. Matt was happy to share his stumbling blocks. He explained what seeing employees as “worker bees” really meant behaviorally, and he went on to share other failures that, with time and reflection, had become lessons.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
<section><span id="flast-sec-0007"/>&#13;
<h2 id="head-2-87">LET'S GET CRACKING</h2>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0072">If you talk to cryptologists—people who crack codes for a living—one of the first things they'll tell you is that code breaking can be frustrating work. It's filled with wrong turns and mistakes, trial and error. You've got to be in it for the long haul. Calmness and patience are highly advised.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0073">By picking up this book and reading this far, it's clear that you don't want to settle for being in the mediocre majority. You're genuinely interested in leading people well. You want to understand human behavior and how it affects high performance. You want insights so you can know what makes people tick and tools so you can help them tick better.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0074"><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="12" id="Page_12" role="doc-pagebreak"/>Most people spend their careers working in, at most, just a handful of organizations. They tend to rely on, know, and learn what they see firsthand. My professional career has been a gift. It's rare to get to work in hundreds of organizations in the span of just one career. I've been lucky enough to gain inside access to thousands of leadership experiences, and I'm delighted to get to share these lessons with you.</p>&#13;
<p id="flast-para-0075">Let's begin by looking back at an epic failure that taught me a tremendous amount about the basics of leadership. Though it happened in 1999, that fiasco has been etched in my memory—in great part because it was all my own doing.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>