<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en" xml:lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.w3.org/2002/06/xhtml2/ http://www.w3.org/MarkUp/SCHEMA/xhtml2.xsd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<link href="Styles/Style00.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="Styles/Style01.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

<style type="text/css">body{margin:1em;background-color:transparent!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{text-indent:0pt!important;}#sbo-rt-content .bq{margin-right:1em!important;}#sbo-rt-content *{word-wrap:break-word!important;word-break:break-word!important;}#sbo-rt-content table,#sbo-rt-content pre{overflow-x:unset!important;overflow:unset!important;overflow-y:unset!important;white-space:pre-wrap!important;}</style></head>
<body><div id="sbo-rt-content"><section epub:type="part" role="doc-part">&#13;
<header><h1><span epub:type="pagebreak" title="147" id="Page_147" role="doc-pagebreak"/><a id="part"/><span class="partNumber">Part IV</span><br/><span class="partTitle">COLLABORATION</span></h1></header>&#13;
<section><span id="p04-sec-0001"/>&#13;
<p id="p04-para-0001">If there's one constant in today's workplace, it's change. VUCA (volatile, uncertain, complex, and ambiguous) has not only entered the common parlance, it's now business as usual. Technology has connected more people in more places at more times than ever before. Leaders who can't harness the power of these connections are fated to flounder. Today's leader can't stay stuck in a silo, relying on the antiquated model of top-down command and control. They need to lead collaboratively.</p>&#13;
<p id="p04-para-0002">Effective collaboration doesn't just happen—it takes adept facilitation. Collaborative leaders need a plethora of skills. They need to know how to build a common vision and engage others to bring the vision to life. They need to inspire others to bring their whole selves to work. They need to find ways to bring a diversity of players to the table and draw out the best ideas. They need to know how and when to use which style of decision-making in which situation. If that wasn't enough, they do all these things while making it easier for their people to do their best work.</p>&#13;
<p id="p04-para-0003">These efforts bring rich rewards. Leading effective collaboration is a win-win. Not only are employees happier, creative, and energized but also companies that promote collaboration are five times as likely to be high performing.<a href="b02.xhtml#p04-note-0001" id="R_p04-note-0001"><sup>1</sup></a></p>&#13;
<p id="p04-para-0004">In Part IV, you'll learn how to lead others in a collaborative environment. You'll delve into the inner workings of motivation. You'll <span epub:type="pagebreak" title="148" id="Page_148" role="doc-pagebreak"/>learn what's required to meet each employee's essential needs. You'll understand the elements of the employee experience and how you can affect it. Finally, you'll gain a new set of tools to simplify your meetings and your emails, limiting the levels of needless complexity that get in your and your team's way.</p>&#13;
</section>&#13;
</section>&#13;
</div></body>
</html>