<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0047</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_364" class="s2BB">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2YP">Acknowledgments</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">We have many people to thank. Linnea Gandhi has served as our chief of staff, offering substantive guidance and help, keeping us organized, making us smile and laugh, and basically running the show. Aside from all that, she offered numerous valuable suggestions on the manuscript. We couldn’t have done it without her. Dan Lovallo played a major part by coauthoring one of the articles that seeded this book. John Brockman, our agent, was enthusiastic, hopeful, sharp, and wise at every stage. We are grateful to him. Tracy Behar, our principal editor and guide, made the book better in ways large and small. Arabella Pike and Ian Straus also provided superb editorial suggestions.</div>
<div class="s4P">Special thanks too to Oren Bar-Gill, Maya Bar-Hillel, Max Bazerman, Tom Blaser, David Budescu, Jeremy Clifton, Anselm Dannecker, Vera Delaney, Itiel Dror, Angela Duckworth, Annie Duke, Dan Gilbert, Adam Grant, Anupam Jena, Louis Kaplow, Gary Klein, Jon Kleinberg, Nathan Kuncel, Kelly Leonard, Daniel Levin, Sara McLanahan, Barbara Mellers, Josh Miller, Sendhil Mullainathan, Scott Page, Eric Posner, Lucia Reisch, Matthew Salganik, Eldar Shafir, Tali Sharot, Philip Tetlock, Richard Thaler, Barbara Tversky, Peter Ubel, Crystal Wang, Duncan Watts, and Caroline Webb, who read and commented on draft chapters, and in some cases a draft of the full text. We are grateful for their generosity and help.</div>
<div class="s4P">We were lucky to benefit from the advice of many great researchers. Julian Parris offered invaluable help on many statistical issues. Our chapters on the achievements of machine learning would not have been possible without Sendhil Mullainathan, Jon Kleinberg, Jens Ludwig, Gregory Stoddard, and Hye Chang. And our discussion of the consistency of judgment owes a lot to Alex Todorov and his Princeton colleagues Joel Martinez, Brandon Labbree, and Stefan Uddenberg, as well as Scott Highhouse and Alison Broadfoot. These amazing teams of researchers not only graciously shared their insights but were kind enough to run special analyses for us. Of <span id="page_365"></span>
course, any misunderstandings or errors are our responsibility. In addition, we thank Laszlo Bock, Bo Cowgill, Jason Dana, Dan Goldstein, Harold Goldstein, Brian Hoffman, Alan Krueger, Michael Mauboussin, Emily Putnam-Horstein, Charles Scherbaum, Anne-Laure Sellier, and Yuichi Shoda for sharing their expertise.</div>
<div class="s4P">We are also thankful to a veritable army of researchers over the years, including Shreya Bhardwaj, Josie Fisher, Rohit Goyal, Nicole Grabel, Andrew Heinrich, Meghann Johnson, Sophie Mehta, Eli Nachmany, William Ryan, Evelyn Shu, Matt Summers, and Noam Ziv-Crispel. Many of the discussions here involve substantive areas in which we lack expertise, and because of their excellent work, the book has less bias, and less noise, than it otherwise would have.</div>
<div class="s4P">Finally, collaborating as a three-author, two-continent team is challenging at the best of times, and the year 2020 was not the best of times. We would not have finished this book without the technological magic of Dropbox and Zoom. We are thankful to the people behind these great products.</div>
</body>
</html>
