<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0022</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_150" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2Z8">PART IV</a>
</div>
<div class="s6D">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2Z8">How Noise Happens</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">W</span>
hat is the origin of noise—and of bias? What mental mechanisms give rise to the variability of our judgments and to the shared errors that affect them? In short, what do we know about the psychology of noise? These are the questions to which we now turn.</div>
<div class="s4P">First, we describe how some of the operations of fast, <span class="s2WT-0">System 1</span>
 thinking are responsible for many judgment errors. In <a href="part0023.xhtml">chapter 13</a>
, we present three important judgment heuristics on which System 1 extensively relies. We show how these heuristics cause predictable, directional errors (statistical bias) as well as noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">
<a href="part0024.xhtml">Chapter 14</a>
 focuses on matching—a particular operation of System 1—and discusses the errors it can produce.</div>
<div class="s4P">In <a href="part0025.xhtml">chapter 15</a>
, we turn to an indispensable accessory in all judgments: the scale on which the judgments are made. We show that the choice of an appropriate scale is a prerequisite for good judgment and that ill-defined or inadequate scales are an important source of noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">
<a href="part0026.xhtml">Chapter 16</a>
 explores the psychological source of what may be the most intriguing type of noise: the patterns of responses that different people have to different cases. Like individual personalities, these patterns are not random and are mostly stable over time, but their effects are not easily predictable.</div>
<div class="s4P">Finally, in <a href="part0027.xhtml">chapter 17</a>
, we summarize what we have learned about noise and its components. This exploration leads us to propose an answer to the puzzle we raised earlier: why is noise, despite its ubiquity, rarely considered an important problem?</div>
</body>
</html>
