<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0039</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_315" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2YM">CHAPTER 27</a>
</div>
<div class="s6T">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2YM">Dignity</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">S</span>
uppose you have been denied a mortgage, not because any person has studied your situation but because a bank has a firm rule that people with your credit rating simply cannot get a mortgage. Or suppose you have terrific qualifications and an interviewer at a firm was greatly impressed with you, but your application for employment is rejected because you were convicted of a drug offense fifteen years ago—and the firm has a flat prohibition on hiring anyone who has been convicted of a crime. Or maybe you are accused of a crime and denied bail not after an individualized hearing before an actual human being but because an algorithm has decided that people with your characteristics have a flight risk that exceeds the threshold that would allow for bail.</div>
<div class="s4P">In such cases, many people would object. They want to be treated as individuals. They want a real human being to look at their particular circumstances. They may or may not be aware that individualized treatment would produce noise. But if that is the price of such treatment, they insist that it is a price worth paying. They might complain whenever people are treated, in the Supreme Court’s words, “not as uniquely individual human beings, but as members of a faceless, undifferentiated mass to be subjected to the blind infliction” of some penalty (see <a href="part0038.xhtml">chapter 26</a>
).</div>
<div class="s4P">Many people insist on an individualized hearing, free from what they see as the tyranny of rules, to give people a sense that they are being treated as individuals and hence with a kind of respect. The idea of due process, taken as part of ordinary life, might seem to require an opportunity for a face-to-face interaction in which a human being, authorized to exercise discretion, considers a wide range of factors.</div>
<div id="page_316" class="s4P">In many cultures, this argument for case-by-case judgment has deep moral foundations. It can be found in politics, law, theology, and even literature. Shakespeare’s <span class="s2WT-0">Merchant of Venice</span>
 is easily read as an objection to noise-free rules and a plea for a role of mercy in law and in human judgment generally. Hence Portia’s closing argument:</div>
<div class="s20E">The quality of mercy is not strained;</div>
<div class="s20G">It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven</div>
<div class="s20G">Upon the place beneath. It is twice blest;</div>
<div class="s20G">It blesseth him that gives and him that takes:</div>
<div class="s20G">(…)</div>
<div class="s20G">It is enthroned in the hearts of kings,</div>
<div class="s20G">It is an attribute to God himself;</div>
<div class="s20G">And earthly power doth then show likest God’s</div>
<div class="s20S">When mercy seasons justice.</div>
<div class="s4P">Because it is not bound by rules, mercy is noisy. Nonetheless, Portia’s plea can be made in many situations and in countless organizations. It often resonates. An employee might be seeking a promotion. A would-be homeowner might be applying for a loan. A student might be applying to university. Those who are making decisions about such cases might reject some noise-reduction strategies, above all firm rules. If they do not, it might be because they think, with Portia, that the quality of mercy is not strained. They might know that their own approach is noisy, but if it ensures that people feel that they have been treated with respect and that someone has listened to them, they might embrace it anyway.</div>
<div class="s4P">Some noise-reduction strategies do not run into this objection. If three people, rather than merely one, are making a decision, people are still given an individualized hearing. Guidelines may leave decision makers with significant discretion. But some efforts to reduce noise, including rigid rules, do eliminate that discretion and might lead people to object that the resulting process offends their sense of dignity.</div>
<div class="s4P">Are they right? Certainly, people often care about whether they receive an individualized hearing. There is an unquestionable human value in the opportunity to be heard. But if individualized <span id="page_317"></span>
hearings produce more deaths, more unfairness, and much higher costs, they should not be celebrated. We have emphasized that in situations like hiring, admissions, and medicine, some noise-reduction strategies might turn out to be crude; they might forbid forms of individualized treatment that, while noisy, would produce fewer errors on balance. But if a noise-reduction strategy is crude, then, as we have urged, the best response is to try to come up with a better strategy—one attuned to a wide range of relevant variables. And if that better strategy eliminates noise and produces fewer errors, it would have obvious advantages over individualized treatment, even if it reduces or eliminates the opportunity to be heard.</div>
<div class="s4P">We are not saying that the interest in individualized treatment does not matter. But there is a high price to pay if such treatment leads to all sorts of terrible consequences, including palpable unfairness.</div>
<div class="s7D">Changing Values</div>
<div class="s4M">Imagine that a public institution succeeds in eliminating noise. Let’s say that a university defines <span class="s2WT-0">misconduct</span>
 so that every faculty member and every student knows what it does and does not include. Or suppose that a large firm specifies exactly what <span class="s2WT-0">corruption</span>
 means, so that anyone in the firm would know what is permitted and what is forbidden. Or imagine that a private institution reduces noise significantly, perhaps by saying that it will not hire anyone who has not majored in certain subjects. What happens if an organization’s values change? Some noise-reduction strategies would seem unable to make space for them, and their inflexibility might be a problem, one that is closely connected with the interest in individualized treatment and dignity.</div>
<div class="s4P">A famously puzzling decision in American constitutional law helps make the point. Decided in 1974, the case involved a school system’s firm rule requiring pregnant teachers to take unpaid leave five months before the expected date of childbirth. Jo Carol LaFleur, a teacher, argued that she was perfectly fit to teach, that the rule was discriminatory, and that five months was excessive.</div>
<div class="s4P">The US Supreme Court agreed. But it did not speak of sex <span id="page_318"></span>
discrimination, and it did not say that five months was necessarily excessive. Instead it objected that LaFleur had not been given an opportunity to show that there was no physical need for her, in particular, to stop working. In the court’s own words,</div>
<div class="s70">there is no individualized determination by the teacher’s doctor—or the school board’s—as to any particular teacher’s ability to continue at her job. The rules contain an irrebuttable presumption of physical incompetency, and that presumption applies even when the medical evidence as to an individual woman’s physical status might be wholly to the contrary.</div>
<div class="s4P">A mandatory period of five months off does seem absurd. But the court did not emphasize that point. Instead it complained of the “irrebuttable presumption” and the absence of an “individualized determination.” In so saying, the court was apparently arguing, with Portia, that the quality of mercy is not strained and that a particular person should be required to look at LaFleur’s particular circumstances.</div>
<div class="s4P">But without some decision hygiene, that is a recipe for noise. Who decides LaFleur’s case? Will the decision be the same for her as for many other, similarly situated women? In any case, many rules amount to irrebuttable presumptions. Is a specified speed limit unacceptable? A minimum age for voting or drinking? A flat prohibition on drunk driving? With such examples in mind, critics objected that an argument against “irrebuttable presumptions” would prove too much—not least because their purpose and effect are to reduce noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">Influential commentators at the time defended the court’s decision by emphasizing that moral values change over time and hence the need to avoid rigid rules. They argued that with respect to women’s role in society, social norms were in a state of great flux. They contended that individualized determinations were especially suitable in that context because they would allow for incorporation of those changing norms. A rule-bound system might eliminate noise, which is good, but it might also freeze existing norms and <span id="page_319"></span>
values, which is not so good.</div>
<div class="s4P">In sum, some people might insist that an advantage of a noisy system is that it will allow people to accommodate new and emerging values. As values change, and if judges are allowed to exercise discretion, they might begin to give, for example, lower sentences to those convicted of drug offenses or higher sentences to those convicted of rape. We have emphasized that if some judges are lenient and others are not, then there will be a degree of unfairness; similarly situated people will be treated differently. But unfairness might be tolerated if it allows room for novel or emerging social values.</div>
<div class="s4P">The problem is hardly limited to the criminal justice system or even to law. With respect to any number of policies, companies might decide to allow some flexibility in their judgments and decisions, even if doing so produces noise, because flexibility ensures that as new beliefs and values arise, they can change policies over time. We offer a personal example: when one of us joined a large consulting firm some years ago, the not-so-recent welcome pack he received specified the travel expenses for which he was allowed to claim reimbursement (“one phone call home on safe arrival; a pressing charge for a suit; tips for bellboys”). The rules were noise-free but clearly outdated (and sexist). They were soon replaced with standards that can evolve with the times. For example, expenses must now be “proper and reasonable.”</div>
<div class="s4P">The first answer to this defense of noise is simple: Some noise-reduction strategies do not run into this objection at all. If people use a shared scale grounded in an outside view, they can respond to changing values over time. In any event, noise-reduction efforts need not and should not be permanent. If such efforts take the form of firm rules, those who make them should be willing to make changes over time. They might revisit them annually. They might decide that because of new values, new rules are essential. In the criminal justice system, the rule makers might reduce sentences for certain crimes and increase them for others. They might decriminalize some activity altogether—and criminalize an activity that had previously been considered perfectly acceptable.</div>
<div class="s4P">But let’s step back. Noisy systems can make room for emerging moral values, and that can be a good thing. But in many spheres, it is preposterous to defend high levels of noise with this <span id="page_320"></span>
argument. Some of the most important noise-reduction strategies, such as aggregating judgments, do allow for emerging values. And if different customers, complaining of a malfunctioning laptop, are treated differently by a computer company, the inconsistency is unlikely to be because of emerging values. If different people get different medical diagnoses, it is rarely because of new moral values. We can do a great deal to reduce noise or even eliminate it while still designing processes to allow values to evolve.</div>
<div class="s7D">Gaming the System, Evading the Rules</div>
<div class="s4M">In a noisy system, judges of all kinds can adapt as the situation requires—and respond to unexpected developments. By eliminating the power of adaptation, some noise-reduction strategies can have the unintended consequence of giving people an incentive to game the system. A potential argument for tolerating noise is that it may turn out to be a by-product of approaches that private and public institutions adopt to prevent that kind of gaming.</div>
<div class="s4P">The tax code is a familiar example. On the one hand, the tax system should not be noisy. It should be clear and predictable; identical taxpayers ought not to be treated differently. But if we eliminated noise in the tax system, clever taxpayers would inevitably find a way to evade the rules. Among tax specialists, there is a lively debate about whether it is best to have clear rules, eliminating noise, or instead to have a degree of vagueness, allowing for unpredictability but also reducing the risk that clear rules will produce opportunistic or self-interested behavior.</div>
<div class="s4P">Some companies and universities forbid people to engage in “wrongdoing,” without specifying what that means. The inevitable result is noise, which is not good and may even be very bad. But if there is a specific list of what counts as wrongdoing, then terrible behavior that is not explicitly covered by the list will end up being tolerated.</div>
<div class="s4P">Because rules have clear edges, people can evade them by engaging in conduct that is technically exempted but that creates the same or analogous harms. (Every parent of a teenager knows this!) When we cannot easily design rules that ban all conduct that ought to be prohibited, we have a distinctive reason to tolerate <span id="page_321"></span>
noise, or so the objection goes.</div>
<div class="s4P">In some circumstances, clear, defined rules eliminating noise do give rise to the risk of evasion. And this risk might be a reason to adopt some other strategy for reducing noise, such as aggregation, and perhaps to tolerate an approach that allows for some noise. But the words <span class="s2WT-0">might be</span>
 are crucial. We need to ask how much evasion there would be—and how much noise there would be. If there is only a little evasion and a lot of noise, then we are better off with approaches that reduce noise. We will return to this question in <a href="part0040.xhtml">chapter 28</a>
.</div>
<div class="s7D">Deterrence and Risk Aversion</div>
<div class="s4M">Suppose that the goal is to deter misconduct—by employees, by students, by ordinary citizens. A little unpredictability, or even a lot of it, might not be the worst thing. An employer might think, “If the punishment of certain kinds of wrongdoing is a fine, a suspension, or a dismissal, then my employees will not engage in those kinds of wrongdoing.” Those who run a criminal justice system might think, “We don’t much mind if would-be criminals have to guess about the likely punishment. If the prospect of a punishment lottery discourages people from crossing the line, maybe the resulting noise can be tolerated.”</div>
<div class="s4P">In the abstract, these arguments cannot be dismissed, but they are not terribly convincing. At first glance, what matters is the expected value of the punishment, and a 50% chance of a $5,000 fine is equivalent to the certainty of a $2,500 fine. Of course, some people might focus on the worst-case scenario. Risk-averse people might be more deterred by the 50% chance of a $5,000 fine—but risk-seeking people will be less deterred by it. To know whether a noisy system imposes more deterrence, we need to know whether potential wrongdoers are risk-averse or risk-seeking. And if we want to increase deterrence, wouldn’t it be better to increase the penalty and eliminate the noise? Doing that would eliminate unfairness as well.</div>
<div class="s7D">Creativity, Morale, and Fresh Ideas</div>
<div id="page_322" class="s4M">Might some noise-reduction efforts squelch motivation and engagement? Might they affect creativity and prevent people from making big breakthroughs? Many organizations think so. In some cases, they might be right. To know whether they are, we need to specify the noise-reduction strategy to which they are objecting.</div>
<div class="s4P">Recall the intensely negative reaction of many judges to the sentencing guidelines. As one judge put it, “We must learn once again to trust the exercise of judgment in the courtroom.” In general, people in positions of authority do not like to have their discretion taken away. They may feel diminished as well as constrained—even humiliated. When steps are taken to reduce their discretion, many people will rebel. They value the opportunity to exercise judgment; they might even cherish it. If their discretion is removed so that they will do what everyone else does, they might feel like cogs in a machine.</div>
<div class="s4P">In short, a noisy system might be good for morale not because it is noisy but because it allows people to decide as they see fit. If employees are allowed to respond to customer complaints in their own way, evaluate their subordinates as they think best, or establish premiums as they deem appropriate, then they might enjoy their jobs more. If the company takes steps to eliminate noise, employees might think that their own agency has been compromised. Now they are following rules rather than exercising their own creativity. Their jobs look more mechanical, even robotic. Who wants to work in a place that squelches your own capacity to make independent decisions?</div>
<div class="s4P">Organizations might respond to these feelings not only because they honor them but also because they want to give people space to come up with new ideas. If a rule is in place, it might reduce ingenuity and invention.</div>
<div class="s4P">These points apply to many people in organizations but, of course, not all of them. Different tasks must be evaluated differently; noisy diagnoses of strep throat or hypertension might not be a good place to exercise creativity. But we might be willing to tolerate noise if it makes for a happier and more inspired workforce. Demoralization is itself a cost and leads to other costs, such as poor performance. To be sure, we should be able to reduce noise while remaining receptive to fresh ideas. Some noise-reduction strategies, such as structuring complex judgments, do exactly that. If we want <span id="page_323"></span>
to reduce noise while maintaining good morale, we might select decision hygiene strategies that have that consequence. And those who are in charge might make it clear that even when firm rules are in place, a process exists to challenge and rethink them—but not to break them by exercising case-by-case discretion.</div>
<div class="s4P">In a series of energetic books, Philip Howard, a distinguished lawyer and thinker, makes similar points in favor of allowing more flexible judgments. Howard wants policies to take the form not of prescriptive rules, which eliminate noise, but of general principles: “be reasonable,” “act prudently,” “do not impose excessive risks.”</div>
<div class="s4P">In Howard’s view, the modern world of government regulation has gone mad, simply because it is so rigid. Teachers, farmers, developers, nurses, doctors—all of these experts, and many more, are burdened by rules that tell them what to do and exactly how to do it. Howard thinks that it would be much better to allow people to use their own creativity to figure out how to achieve the relevant goals, whether the goals are better educational outcomes, reduced accidents, cleaner water, or healthier patients.</div>
<div class="s4P">Howard makes some appealing arguments, but it is important to ask about the consequences of the approaches he favors, including potential increases in noise and bias. Most people do not love rigidity in the abstract, but it might be the best way of reducing noise and eliminating bias and error. If only general principles are in place, noise in their interpretation and enforcement will follow. That noise might well be intolerable, even scandalous. At the very least, the costs of noise have to be given careful consideration—and they usually are not. Once we see that noise produces widespread unfairness and high costs of its own, we will often conclude that it is unacceptable and that we should identify noise-reduction strategies that do not compromise important values.</div>
<div class="s84">Speaking of Dignity</div>
<div class="s86">
<span class="class-2">“People value and even need face-to-face interactions. They want a real human being to listen to their concerns and complaints and to have the power to make things better. Sure, those interactions will inevitably produce noise. But human dignity is priceless.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“Moral values are constantly evolving. If we lock everything down, we won’t make space for changing values. Some efforts to reduce</span>
 <span id="page_324" class="class-2"></span>
<span class="class-2">noise are just too rigid; they would prevent moral change.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“If you want to deter misconduct, you should tolerate some noise. If students are left wondering about the penalty for plagiarism, great—they will avoid plagiarizing. A little uncertainty in the form of noise can magnify deterrence.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“If we eliminate noise, we might end up with clear rules, which wrongdoers will find ways to avoid. Noise can be a price worth paying if it is a way of preventing strategic or opportunistic behavior.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“Creative people need space. People aren’t robots. Whatever your job, you deserve some room to maneuver. If you’re hemmed in, you might not be noisy, but you won’t have much fun and you won’t be able to bring your original ideas to bear.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s8A">
<span class="class-2">“In the end, most of the efforts to defend noise aren’t convincing. We can respect people’s dignity, make plenty of space for moral evolution, and allow for human creativity without tolerating the unfairness and cost of noise.”</span>
</div>
</body>
</html>
