<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0011</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_41" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XD">PART II</a>
</div>
<div class="s6D">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XD">Your Mind Is a Measuring Instrument</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">M</span>
easurement, in everyday life as in science, is the act of using an instrument to assign a value on a scale to an object or event. You measure the length of a carpet in inches, using a tape measure. You measure the temperature in degrees Fahrenheit or Celsius by consulting a thermometer.</div>
<div class="s4P">The act of making a judgment is similar. When judges determine the appropriate prison term for a crime, they assign a value on a scale. So do underwriters when they set a dollar value to insure a risk, or doctors when they make a diagnosis. (The scale need not be numerical: “guilty beyond a reasonable doubt,” “advanced melanoma,” and “surgery is recommended” are judgments, too.)</div>
<div class="s4P">Judgment can therefore be described as <span class="s2WT-0">measurement in which the instrument is a human mind</span>
. Implicit in the notion of measurement is the goal of accuracy—to approach truth and minimize error. The goal of judgment is not to impress, not to take a stand, not to persuade. It is important to note that the concept of judgment as we use it here is borrowed from the technical psychological literature, and that it is a much narrower concept than the same word has in everyday language. <span class="s2WT-0">Judgment</span>
 is not a synonym for <span class="s2WT-0">thinking,</span>
 and <span class="s2WT-0">making accurate judgments</span>
 is not a synonym for <span class="s2WT-0">having good judgment.</span>
</div>
<div class="s4P">As we define it, a judgment is a conclusion that can be summarized in a word or phrase. If an intelligence analyst writes a long report leading to the conclusion that a regime is unstable, only the conclusion is a judgment. <span class="s2WT-0">Judgment,</span>
 like <span class="s2WT-0">measurement,</span>
 refers both to the mental activity of making a judgment and to its product. And we will sometimes use <span class="s2WT-0">judge</span>
<span id="page_42"></span>
 as a technical term to describe people who make judgments, even when they have nothing to do with the judiciary.</div>
<div class="s4P">Although accuracy is the goal, perfection in achieving this goal is never achieved even in scientific measurement, much less in judgment. There is always some error, some of which is bias and some of which is noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">To experience how noise and bias contribute to error, we invite you to play a game that will take you less than one minute. If you have a smartphone with a stopwatch, it probably has a lap function, which enables you to measure consecutive time intervals without stopping the stopwatch or even looking at the display. Your goal is to produce five consecutive laps of exactly ten seconds without looking at the phone. You may want to observe a ten-second interval a few times before you begin. Go.</div>
<div class="s4P">Now look at the lap durations recorded on your phone. (The phone itself was not free from noise, but there was very little of it.) You will see that the laps are not all exactly ten seconds and that they vary over a substantial range. You tried to reproduce the same timing exactly, but you were unable to do so. The variability you could not control is an instance of noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">This finding is hardly surprising, because noise is universal in physiology and psychology. Variability across individuals is a biological given; no two peas in a pod are truly identical. Within the same person, there is variability, too. Your heartbeat is not exactly regular. You cannot repeat the same gesture with perfect precision. And when you have your hearing examined by an audiologist, there will be some sounds so soft you never hear them, and others so loud you always do. But there will also be some sounds that you will sometimes hear and sometimes miss.</div>
<div class="s4P">Now look at the five numbers on your phone. Do you see a pattern? For instance, are all five laps shorter than ten seconds, a pattern suggesting that your internal clock is running fast? In this simple task, the bias is the difference, positive or negative, between the mean of your laps and ten seconds. Noise constitutes the variability of your results, analogous to the scatter of shots we saw earlier. In statistics, the most common measure of variability is <span class="s2WT-0">standard deviation,</span>
 and we will use it to measure noise in judgments.</div>
<div class="s4P">We can think of most judgments, specifically <span id="page_43"></span>
<span class="s2WT-0">predictive</span>
 judgments, as similar to the measurements you just made. When we make a prediction, we attempt to come close to a true value. An economic forecaster aims to be as close as possible to the true value of the growth in next year’s gross domestic product; a doctor aims to make the correct diagnosis. (Note that the term <span class="s2WT-0">prediction,</span>
 in the technical sense used in this book, does not imply predicting the future: for our purposes, the diagnosis of an existing medical condition is a prediction.)</div>
<div class="s4P">We will rely extensively on the analogy between judgment and measurement because it helps explain the role of noise in error. People who make predictive judgments are just like the shooter who aims at the bull’s-eye or the physicist who strives to measure the true weight of a particle. Noise in their judgments implies error. Simply put, when a judgment aims at a true value, two different judgments cannot both be right. Like measuring instruments, some people generally show more error than others in a particular task—perhaps because of deficiencies in skill or training. But, like measuring instruments, the people who make judgments are never perfect. We need to understand and measure their errors.</div>
<div class="s4P">Of course, most professional judgments are far more complex than the measurement of a time interval. In <a href="part0012.xhtml">chapter 4</a>
, we define different types of professional judgments and explore what they aim at. In <a href="part0013.xhtml">chapter 5</a>
, we discuss how to measure error and how to quantify the contribution of system noise to it. <a href="part0014.xhtml">Chapter 6</a>
 dives deeper into system noise and identifies its components, which are different types of noise. In <a href="part0015.xhtml">chapter 7</a>
, we explore one of these components: occasion noise. Finally, in <a href="part0016.xhtml">chapter 8</a>
, we show how groups often amplify noise in judgments.</div>
<div class="s4P">A simple conclusion emerges from these chapters: like a measuring instrument, the human mind is imperfect—it is both biased and noisy. Why, and by how much? Let’s find out.</div>
</body>
</html>
