<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0016</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_92" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2YD">CHAPTER 8</a>
</div>
<div class="s6T">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2YD">How Groups Amplify Noise</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">N</span>
oise in individual judgment is bad enough. But group decision making adds another layer to the problem. Groups can go in all sorts of directions, depending in part on factors that should be irrelevant. Who speaks first, who speaks last, who speaks with confidence, who is wearing black, who is seated next to whom, who smiles or frowns or gestures at the right moment—all these factors, and many more, affect outcomes. Every day, similar groups make very different decisions, whether the question involves hiring, promotion, office closings, communications strategies, environmental regulations, national security, university admissions, or new product launches.</div>
<div class="s4P">It might seem odd to emphasize this point, since we noted in the previous chapter that aggregating the judgments of multiple individuals reduces noise. But because of group dynamics, groups can add noise, too. There are “wise crowds,” whose mean judgment is close to the correct answer, but there are also crowds that follow tyrants, that fuel market bubbles, that believe in magic, or that are under the sway of a shared illusion. Minor differences can lead one group toward a firm yes and an essentially identical group toward an emphatic no. And because of the dynamics among group members—our emphasis here—the level of noise can be high. That proposition holds whether we are speaking of noise across similar groups or of a single group whose firm judgment on an important matter should be seen as merely one in a cloud of possibilities.</div>
<div class="s7D">Noise in the Music</div>
<div class="s4M">For evidence, we begin in what might seem to be an unlikely place: a <span id="page_93"></span>
large-scale study of music downloads by Matthew Salganik and his coauthors. As the study was designed, the experimenters created a control group of thousands of people (visitors to a moderately popular website). Members of the control group could hear and download one or more of seventy-two songs by new bands. The songs were vividly named: “Trapped in an Orange Peel,” “Gnaw,” “Eye Patch,” “Baseball Warlock v1,” and “Pink Aggression.” (Some of the titles sound directly related to our concerns here: “Best Mistakes,” “I Am Error,” “The Belief Above the Answer,” “Life’s Mystery,” “Wish Me Luck,” and “Out of the Woods.”)</div>
<div class="s4P">In the control group, the participants were told nothing about what anyone else had said or done. They were left to make their own independent judgments about which songs they liked and wished to download. But Salganik and his colleagues also created eight other groups, to which thousands of other website visitors were randomly assigned. For members of those groups, everything was the same, with just one exception: people could see how many people in their particular group had previously downloaded every individual song. For example, if “Best Mistakes” was immensely popular in one group, its members would see that, and so too if no one was downloading it.</div>
<div class="s4P">Because the various groups did not differ along any important dimension, the study was essentially running history eight times. You might well predict that in the end, the good songs would always rise to the top and the bad ones would always sink to the bottom. If so, the various groups would end up with identical or at least similar rankings. Across groups, there would be no noise. And indeed, that was the precise question that Salganik and his coauthors meant to explore. They were testing for a particular driver of noise: <span class="s2WT-0">social influence</span>
.</div>
<div class="s4P">The key finding was that group rankings were wildly disparate: across different groups, there was a great deal of noise. In one group, “Best Mistakes” could be a spectacular success, while “I Am Error” could flop. In another group, “I Am Error” could do exceedingly well, and “Best Mistakes” could be a disaster. If a song benefited from early popularity, it could do really well. If it did not get that benefit, the outcome could be very different.</div>
<div class="s4P">To be sure, the very worst songs (as established by the control group) never ended up at the very top, and the very best <span id="page_94"></span>
songs never ended up at the very bottom. But otherwise, almost anything could happen. As the authors emphasize, “The level of success in the social influence condition was more unpredictable than in the independent condition.” In short, social influences create significant noise across groups. And if you think about it, you can see that individual groups were noisy, too, in the sense that their judgment in favor of one song, or against it, could easily have been different, depending on whether it attracted early popularity.</div>
<div class="s4P">As Salganik and his coauthors later demonstrated, group outcomes can be manipulated fairly easily, because popularity is self-reinforcing. In a somewhat fiendish follow-up experiment, they inverted the rankings in the control group (in other words, they lied about how popular songs were), which meant that people saw the least popular songs as the most popular, and vice versa. The researchers then tested what the website’s visitors would do. The result was that most of the unpopular songs became quite popular, and most of the popular songs did very poorly. Within very large groups, popularity and unpopularity bred more of the same, even when the researchers misled people about which songs were popular. The single exception is that the very most popular song in the control group did rise in popularity over time, which means that the inverted ranking could not keep the best song down. For the most part, however, the inverted ranking helped determine the ultimate ranking.</div>
<div class="s4P">It should be easy to see how these studies bear on group judgments in general. Suppose that a small group consisting of, say, ten people is deciding whether to adopt some bold new initiative. If one or two advocates speak first, they might well shift the entire room in their preferred direction. The same is true if skeptics speak first. At least this is so if people are influenced by one another—and they usually are. For this reason, otherwise similar groups might end up making very different judgments simply because of who spoke first and initiated the equivalent of early downloads. The popularity of “Best Mistakes” and “I Am Error” have close analogues in professional judgments of all kinds. And if groups do not hear the analogue to the popularity rankings of such songs—loud enthusiasm, say, for that bold initiative—the initiative might not go anywhere, simply because those who supported it did not voice their opinion.</div>
<div id="page_95" class="s7D">Beyond Music Downloads</div>
<div class="s4M">If you are skeptical, you might be thinking that the case of music downloads is unique or at least distinctive and that it tells us little about judgments by other groups. But similar observations have been made in many other areas as well. Consider, for example, the popularity of proposals for referenda in the United Kingdom. In deciding whether to support a referendum, people must of course judge whether it is a good idea, all things considered. The patterns are similar to those observed by Salganik and his coauthors: an initial burst of popularity is self-reinforcing, and if a proposal attracts little support on the first day, it is essentially doomed. In politics, as in music, a great deal depends on social influences and, in particular, on whether people see that other people are attracted or repelled.</div>
<div class="s4P">Building directly on the music downloads experiment, sociologist Michael Macy of Cornell University and his collaborators asked whether the visible views of other people could suddenly make identifiable political positions popular among Democrats and unpopular among Republicans—or vice versa. The short answer is yes. If Democrats in an online group saw that a particular point of view was obtaining initial popularity among Democrats, they would endorse that point of view, ultimately leading most Democrats, in the relevant group, to favor it. But if Democrats in a different online group saw that the very same point of view was obtaining initial popularity among Republicans, they would reject that point of view, ultimately leading most Democrats, in the relevant group, to reject it. Republicans behaved similarly. In short, political positions can be just like songs, in the sense that their ultimate fate can depend on initial popularity. As the researchers put it, “chance variation in a small number of early movers” can have major effects in tipping large populations—and in getting both Republicans and Democrats to embrace a cluster of views that actually have nothing to do with each other.</div>
<div class="s4P">Or consider a question that bears directly on group decisions in general: how people judge comments on websites. Lev Muchnik, a professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and his colleagues carried out an experiment on a website that displays diverse stories and allows people to post comments, which can in turn be voted up <span id="page_96"></span>
or down. The researchers automatically and artificially gave certain comments on stories an immediate up vote—the first vote that a comment would receive. You might well think that after hundreds or thousands of visitors and ratings, a single initial vote on a comment could not possibly matter. That is a sensible thought, but it is wrong. After seeing an initial up vote (and recall that it was entirely artificial), the next viewer became 32% more likely to give an up vote.</div>
<div class="s4P">Remarkably, this effect persisted over time. After five months, a single positive initial vote artificially increased the mean rating of comments by 25%. The effect of a single positive early vote is a recipe for noise. Whatever the reason for that vote, it can produce a large-scale shift in overall popularity.</div>
<div class="s4P">This study offers a clue about how groups shift and why they are noisy (again in the sense that similar groups can make very different judgments, and single groups can make judgments that are merely one in a cloud of possibilities). Members are often in a position to offer the functional equivalent of an early up vote (or down vote) by indicating agreement, neutrality, or dissent. If a group member has given immediate approval, other members have reason to do so as well. There is no question that when groups move in the direction of some products, people, movements, and ideas, it may not be because of their intrinsic merits but instead because of the functional equivalent of early up votes. Of course Muchnik’s own study involved very large groups. But the same thing can happen in small ones, in fact even more dramatically, because an initial up vote—in favor of some plan, product, or verdict—often has a large effect on others.</div>
<div class="s4P">There is a related point. We have pointed to the wisdom of crowds: if you take a large group of people and ask them a question, there is a good chance that the average answer will be close to the target. Aggregating judgments can be an excellent way of reducing noise, and therefore error. But what happens if people are listening to one another? You might well think that their doing so is likely to help. After all, people can learn from one another and thus figure out what is right. Under favorable circumstances, in which people share what they know, deliberating groups can indeed do well. But independence is a prerequisite for the wisdom of crowds. If people are not making their own judgments and are relying instead on what <span id="page_97"></span>
other people think, crowds might not be so wise after all.</div>
<div class="s4P">Research has revealed exactly that problem. In simple estimation tasks—the number of crimes in a city, population increases over specified periods, the length of a border between nations—crowds were indeed wise as long as they registered their views independently. But if they learned the estimates of other people—for example, the average estimate of a group of twelve—the crowd did worse. As the authors put it, social influences are a problem because they reduce “group diversity without diminishing the collective error.” The irony is that while multiple independent opinions, properly aggregated, can be strikingly accurate, even a little social influence can produce a kind of herding that undermines the wisdom of crowds.</div>
<div class="s7D">Cascades</div>
<div class="s4M">Some of the studies we are describing involve <span class="s2WT-0">informational cascades</span>
. Such cascades are pervasive. They help explain why similar groups in business, government, and elsewhere can go in multiple directions and why small changes can produce such different outcomes and hence noise. We are able to see history only as it was actually run, but for many groups and group decisions, there are clouds of possibilities, only one of which is realized.</div>
<div class="s4P">To see how informational cascades work, imagine that ten people are in a large office, deciding whom to hire for an important position. There are three main candidates: Thomas, Sam, and Julie. Assume that the group members are announcing their views in sequence. Each person attends, reasonably enough, to the judgments of others. Arthur is the first to speak. He suggests that the best choice is Thomas. Barbara now knows Arthur’s judgment; she should certainly go along with his view if she is also enthusiastic about Thomas. But suppose she isn’t sure about who is the best candidate. If she trusts Arthur, she might simply agree: Thomas is the best. Because she trusts Arthur well enough, she supports his judgment.</div>
<div class="s4P">Now turn to a third person, Charles. Both Arthur and Barbara have said that they want to hire Thomas, but Charles’s own view, based on what he knows to be limited information, is that Thomas is <span id="page_98"></span>
not the right person for the job and that Julie is the best candidate. Even though Charles has that view, he might well ignore what he knows and simply follow Arthur and Barbara. If so, the reason is not that Charles is a coward. Instead it is because he is a respectful listener. He may simply think that both Arthur and Barbara have evidence for their enthusiasm.</div>
<div class="s4P">Unless David thinks that his own information is really better than that of those who preceded him, he should and will follow their lead. If he does that, David is in a cascade. True, he will resist if he has very strong grounds to think that Arthur, Barbara, and Charles are wrong. But if he lacks those grounds, he will likely go along with them.</div>
<div class="s4P">Importantly, Charles or David may have information or insights about Thomas (or the other candidates)—information or insights of which Arthur and Barbara are unaware. If it had been shared, this private information might have changed Arthur’s or Barbara’s views. If Charles and David had spoken first, they would not only have expressed their views about the candidates but also contributed information that might have swayed the other participants. But since they speak last, their private information might well remain private.</div>
<div class="s4P">Now suppose that Erica, Frank, and George are expected to express their views. If Arthur, Barbara, Charles, and David have previously said that Thomas is best, each of them might well say the same thing even if they have good reason to think that another choice would be better. Sure, they might oppose the growing consensus if it is clearly wrong. But what if the decision isn’t clear? The trick in this example is that Arthur’s initial judgment has started a process by which several people are led to participate in a cascade, leading the group to opt unanimously for Thomas—even if some of those who support him actually have no view and even if others think he is not the best choice at all.</div>
<div class="s4P">This example, of course, is highly artificial. But within groups of all kinds, something like it happens all the time. People learn from others, and if early speakers seem to like something or want to do something, others might assent. At least this is so if they do not have reason to distrust them and if they lack a good reason to think that they are wrong.</div>
<div class="s4P">For our purposes, the most important point is that <span id="page_99"></span>
informational cascades make noise across groups possible and even likely. In the example we have given, Arthur spoke first and favored Thomas. But suppose that Barbara had spoken first and favored Sam. Or suppose that Arthur had felt slightly differently and preferred Julie. On plausible assumptions, the group would have turned to Sam or Julie, not because they are better but because that is how the cascade would have worked itself out. That is the central finding of the music download experiment (and its cousins).</div>
<div class="s4P">Note that it is not necessarily irrational for people to participate in informational cascades. If people are unsure about whom to hire, they might be smart to follow others. As the number of people who share the same view gets larger, relying on them becomes smarter still. Nonetheless, there are two problems. First, people tend to neglect the possibility that most of the people in the crowd are in a cascade, too—and are not making independent judgments of their own. When we see three, ten, or twenty people embracing some conclusion, we might well underestimate the extent to which they are all following their predecessors. We might think that their shared agreement reflects collective wisdom, even if it reflects the initial views of just a few people. Second, informational cascades can lead groups of people in truly terrible directions. After all, Arthur might have been wrong about Thomas.</div>
<div class="s4P">Information is not, of course, the only reason that group members are influenced by one another. Social pressures also matter. At a company or in government, people might silence themselves so as not to appear uncongenial, truculent, obtuse, or stupid. They want to be team players. That is why they follow the views and actions of others. People think that they know what is right or probably right, but they nonetheless go along with the apparent consensus of the group, or the views of early speakers, to stay in the group’s good graces.</div>
<div class="s4P">With minor variations, the hiring tale just told can proceed in the same way, not because people are learning from one another about the merits of Thomas but because they do not want to look disagreeable or silly. Arthur’s early judgment in favor of Thomas might start a kind of bandwagon effect, ultimately imposing strong social pressure on Erica, Frank, or George, simply because everyone else has favored Thomas. And as with informational cascades, so with social pressure cascades: people might well exaggerate the <span id="page_100"></span>
conviction of those who have spoken before them. If people are endorsing Thomas, they might be doing so not because they really prefer Thomas but because an early speaker, or a powerful one, endorsed him. And yet group members end up adding their voice to the consensus and thus increasing the level of social pressure. This is a familiar phenomenon in companies and government offices, and it can lead to confidence about, and unanimous support for, a judgment that is quite wrong.</div>
<div class="s4P">Across groups, social influences also produce noise. If someone starts a meeting by favoring a major change in the company’s direction, that person might initiate a discussion that leads a group unanimously to support the change. Their agreement might be a product of social pressures, not of conviction. If someone else had started the meeting by indicating a different view, or if the initial speaker had decided to be silent, the discussion might have headed in an altogether different direction—and for the same reason. Very similar groups can end up in divergent places because of social pressures.</div>
<div class="s7D">Group Polarization</div>
<div class="s4M">In the United States and in many other countries, criminal cases (and many civil cases) are generally tried by a jury. One would hope that, through their deliberations, juries make wiser decisions than do the individuals who constitute these deliberative bodies. However, the study of juries uncovers a distinct kind of social influence that is also a source of noise: <span class="s2WT-0">group polarization</span>
. The basic idea is that when people speak with one another, they often end up at a more extreme point in line with their original inclinations. If, for example, most people in a seven-person group tend to think that opening a new office in Paris would be a pretty good idea, the group is likely to conclude, after discussion, that opening that office would be a terrific idea. Internal discussions often create greater confidence, greater unity, and greater extremism, frequently in the form of increased enthusiasm. As it happens, group polarization does not only occur in juries; teams that make professional judgments often become polarized, too.</div>
<div class="s4P">In a series of experiments, we studied the decisions of juries <span id="page_101"></span>
that award punitive damages in product liability cases. Each jury’s decision is a monetary amount, which is intended to punish the company for its wrongdoing and be a deterrent to others. (We will return to these studies and describe them in greater detail in <a href="part0025.xhtml">chapter 15</a>
.) For our purposes here, consider an experiment that compares real-world deliberating juries and “statistical juries.” First, we presented the 899 participants in our study with case vignettes and asked them to make their own independent judgments about them, using a seven-degree scale to express their outrage and punitive intent and a dollar scale for monetary awards (if any). Then, with the aid of the computer, we used these individual responses to create millions of statistical juries, that is, virtual six-person groups (assembled randomly). In each statistical jury, we took the median of the six individual judgments as the verdict.</div>
<div class="s4P">We found, in short, that the judgments of these statistical juries were much more consistent. Noise was substantially reduced. The low noise was a mechanical effect of statistical aggregation: the noise present in the independent, individual judgments is always reduced by averaging them.</div>
<div class="s4P">Real-world juries are not, however, statistical juries; they meet and discuss their views of the case. You could reasonably wonder whether deliberating juries would, in fact, tend to arrive at the judgment of their median members. To find out, we followed up the first experiment with another, this one involving more than three thousand jury-eligible citizens and more than five hundred six-person juries.</div>
<div class="s4P">The results were straightforward. Looking at the same case, deliberating juries were far noisier than statistical juries—a clear reflection of social influence noise. Deliberation had the effect of increasing noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">There was another intriguing finding. When the median member of a six-person group was only moderately outraged and favored a lenient punishment, the verdict of the deliberating jury typically ended up more lenient still. When, on the contrary, the median member of a six-person group was quite outraged and expressed a severe punitive intent, the deliberating jury typically ended up more outraged and more severe still. And when this outrage was expressed as a monetary award, there was a systematic tendency to come up with monetary awards that were higher than <span id="page_102"></span>
that of the jury’s median member. Indeed, 27% of juries chose an award as high as, or even higher than, that of their most severe member. Not only were deliberating juries noisier than statistical juries, but they also accentuated the opinions of the individuals composing them.</div>
<div class="s4P">Recall the basic finding of group polarization: after people talk with one another, they typically end up at a more extreme point in line with their original inclinations. Our experiment illustrates this effect. Deliberating juries experienced a shift toward greater leniency (when the median member was lenient) and a shift toward greater severity (when the median member was severe). Similarly, juries that were inclined to impose monetary punishments ended up imposing more severe punishments than what their median members had favored.</div>
<div class="s4P">The explanations for group polarization are, in turn, similar to the explanations for cascade effects. Information plays a major role. If most people favor a severe punishment, then the group will hear many arguments in favor of severe punishment—and fewer arguments the other way. If group members are listening to one another, they will shift in the direction of the dominant tendency, rendering the group more unified, more confident, and more extreme. And if people care about their reputation within the group, they will shift in the direction of the dominant tendency, which will also produce polarization.</div>
<div class="s4P">Group polarization can, of course, produce errors. And it often does. But our main focus here is on variability. As we have seen, an aggregation of judgments will reduce noise, and for those purposes, the more judgments, the better. This is why statistical juries are less noisy than individual jurors. At the same time, we found that deliberating juries are noisier than statistical juries. When similarly situated groups end up differing, group polarization is often the reason. And the resulting noise can be very loud.</div>
<div class="s4P">In business, in government, and everywhere else, cascades and polarization can lead to wide disparities between groups looking at the same problem. The potential dependence of outcomes on the judgments of a few individuals—those who speak first or who have the largest influence—should be especially worrisome now that we have explored how noisy individual judgments can be. We have seen that level noise and pattern noise make differences between the <span id="page_103"></span>
opinions of group members larger than they should be (and larger than we would expect). We have also seen that occasion noise—fatigue, mood, comparison points—may affect the judgment of the first person who speaks. Group dynamics can amplify this noise. As a result, deliberating groups tend to be noisier than statistical groups that merely average individual judgments.</div>
<div class="s4P">Since many of the most important decisions in business and government are made after some sort of deliberative process, it is especially important to be alert to this risk. Organizations and their leaders should take steps to control noise in the judgments of their individual members. They should also manage deliberating groups in a way that is likely to reduce noise, not amplify it. The noise-reduction strategies we will propose aim to achieve that goal.</div>
<div class="s84">Speaking of Group Decisions</div>
<div class="s86">
<span class="class-2">“Everything seems to depend on early popularity. We’d better work hard to make sure that our new release has a terrific first week.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“As I always suspected, ideas about politics and economics are a lot like movie stars. If people think that other people like them, such ideas can go far.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s8A">
<span class="class-2">“I’ve always been worried that when my team gets together, we end up confident and unified—and firmly committed to the course of action that we choose. I guess there’s something in our internal processes that isn’t going all that well!”</span>
</div>
</body>
</html>
