<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0040</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_325" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2Y7">CHAPTER 28</a>
</div>
<div class="s6T">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2Y7">Rules or Standards?</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">I</span>
f the goal is to reduce noise or decide how and whether to do so (and to what degree), it is useful to distinguish between two ways of regulating behavior: rules and standards. Organizations of all kinds often choose one or the other or some combination of the two.</div>
<div class="s4P">In business, a company might say that employees have to be at work between specified hours, that no one may take vacations of more than two weeks, and that if anyone leaks to the press, the person will be fired. Alternatively, it might say that employees must be at work “for a reasonable working day,” that vacations will be decided “on a case-by-case basis, consistent with the needs of the firm,” and that leaks “will be punished appropriately.”</div>
<div class="s4P">In law, a rule might say that no one may exceed a numerical speed limit, that workers may not be exposed to carcinogens, or that all prescription drugs must come with specific warnings. By contrast, a standard might say that people must drive “prudently,” that employers must provide safe workplaces “to the extent feasible,” or that in deciding whether to offer warnings for prescription drugs, companies must act “reasonably.”</div>
<div class="s4P">These examples illustrate the central distinction between rules and standards. Rules are meant to eliminate discretion by those who apply them; standards are meant to grant such discretion. Whenever rules are in place, noise ought to be severely reduced. Those who interpret rules must answer a question of fact: How fast did the driver go? Was a worker exposed to a carcinogen? Did the drug have the required warnings?</div>
<div class="s4P">Under rules, the enterprise of fact-finding may itself involve judgment and so produce noise or be affected by bias. We have encountered many examples. But people who design rules aim to <span id="page_326"></span>
reduce those risks, and when a rule consists of a number (“no one may vote until they reach the age of eighteen” or “the speed limit is sixty-five miles per hour”), noise should be reduced. Rules have an important feature: <span class="s2WT-0">they reduce the role of judgment.</span>
 On that count, at least, judges (understood to include all those who apply rules) have less work to do. They follow the rules. For better or worse, they have far less room to maneuver.</div>
<div class="s4P">Standards are altogether different. When standards are in place, judges have to do a lot of work to specify the meaning of open-ended terms. They might have to make numerous judgments to decide what counts as (for example) “reasonable” and “feasible.” In addition to finding facts, they must give content to relatively vague phrases. Those who devise standards effectively export decision-making authority to others. They delegate power.</div>
<div class="s4P">The kinds of guidelines discussed in <a href="part0033.xhtml">chapter 22</a>
 might be rules or standards. If they are rules, they dramatically constrain judgment. Even if they are standards, they might be far from open-ended. Apgar scores are guidelines and not rules. They do not forbid some exercise of discretion. When guidelines are tightened so as to eliminate that discretion, they turn into rules. Algorithms work as rules, not standards.</div>
<div class="s7D">Divisions and Ignorance</div>
<div class="s4M">It should be clear at the outset that whenever firms, organizations, societies, or groups are sharply divided, it might be far easier to generate standards than rules. Company leaders might agree that managers should not act abusively, without knowing precisely what the proscription means. Managers might oppose sexual harassment in the workplace without deciding whether flirtatious behavior is acceptable. A university might prohibit students from engaging in plagiarism, without specifying the exact meaning of that term. People might agree that a constitution should protect freedom of speech, without deciding whether it should protect commercial advertising, threats, or obscenity. People might agree that environmental regulators should issue prudent rules to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, without defining what constitutes prudence.</div>
<div id="page_327" class="s4P">Setting standards without specifying details can lead to noise, which might be controlled through some of the strategies we have discussed, such as aggregating judgments and using the mediating assessments protocol. Leaders might want to come up with rules but, as a practical matter, might not be able to agree on them. Constitutions themselves include many standards (protecting, for example, freedom of religion). The same is true of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (“All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights”).</div>
<div class="s4P">The great difficulty of getting diverse people to agree on noise-reducing rules is one reason why standards, and not rules, are put in place. The leaders of a company might be unable to agree on specific words to govern how employees must deal with customers. Standards might be the best that such leaders can do. There are analogies in the public sector. Lawmakers might reach a compromise on a standard (and tolerate the resulting noise) if that is the price of enacting law at all. In medicine, doctors might agree on standards for diagnosing illnesses; attempts to devise rules, on the other hand, might cause intractable disagreement.</div>
<div class="s4P">But social and political divisions are not the only reason that people resort to standards instead of rules. Sometimes, the real problem is that people lack the information that would enable them to produce sensible rules. A university might be unable to produce rules to govern its decisions about whether to promote a faculty member. An employer might struggle to foresee all the circumstances that would lead it to retain or discipline employees. A national legislature might not know about the appropriate level of air pollutants—particulate matter, ozone, nitrogen dioxide, lead. The best it can do is issue some kind of standard and rely on trusted experts to specify its meaning, even if the consequence is noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">Rules can be biased in many ways. A rule might forbid women from becoming police officers. It might say that Irish need not apply. Even if they create a large bias, rules will sharply reduce noise (if everyone follows them). If a rule says that everyone over the age of twenty-one is permitted to buy alcoholic beverages and that no one under that age can do so, there will probably be little noise, at least as long as people follow the rule. By contrast, standards invite noise.</div>
<div id="page_328" class="s7D">Bosses, Controlling Subordinates</div>
<div class="s4M">The distinction between rules and standards has great importance for all public and private institutions, including businesses of all kinds. The choice between the two arises whenever a principal is trying to control an agent. As described in <a href="part0009.xhtml">chapter 2</a>
, insurance underwriters work hard to charge the Goldilocks premium (one neither too high nor too low) to benefit their company. Would their bosses give these underwriters standards or rules to guide them? Any leader in a company might direct employees very specifically or more generally (“use your common sense” or “exercise your best judgment”). A doctor might use one or the other approach when offering instructions to a patient. “Take a pill every morning and every night” is a rule; “take a pill whenever you feel you need it” is a standard.</div>
<div class="s4P">We have noted that a social media company such as Facebook will inevitably be concerned with noise and how to reduce it. The company might tell its employees to take down content when a post violates a clear rule (forbidding, say, nudity). Or it might tell its employees to enforce a standard (such as forbidding bullying or patently offensive materials). Facebook’s Community Standards, first made public in 2018, are a fascinating mix of rules and standards, with plenty of both. After they were released, numerous complaints were made by Facebook’s users, who argued that the company’s standards produced excessive noise (and therefore created both errors and unfairness). A recurring concern was that because many thousands of Facebook’s reviewers had to make judgments, the decisions could be highly variable. In deciding whether to take down posts that they reviewed, the reviewers made different decisions about what was allowed and what was forbidden. To see why such variability was inevitable, consider these words from Facebook’s Community Standards in 2020:</div>
<div class="s70">We define hate speech as a direct attack on people based on what we call protected characteristics—race, ethnicity, national origin, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, caste, sex, gender, gender identity, and serious disease or disability. We also provide some protections for immigration status. We <span id="page_329"></span>
define attack as violent or dehumanizing speech, statements of inferiority, or calls for exclusion or segregation.</div>
<div class="s4P">In implementing a definition of this kind, reviewers will inevitably be noisy. What, exactly, counts as “violent or dehumanizing speech”? Facebook was aware of such questions, and in response to them, it moved in the direction of blunt rules, precisely to reduce noise. Those rules were cataloged in a nonpublic document called the Implementation Standards, consisting of about twelve thousand words, which <span class="s2WT-0">The New Yorker</span>
 obtained. In the public Community Standards, the text governing graphic content started with a standard “We remove content that glorifies violence.” (What’s that, exactly?) By contrast, the Implementation Standards listed graphic images and explicitly told the content moderators what to do about these images. Examples included “charred or burning human beings” and “the detachment of non-generating body parts.” To summarize a complicated story, the Community Standards look more like standards whereas the Implementation Standards look more like rules.</div>
<div class="s4P">In the same vein, an airline might ask its pilots to abide by either rules or standards. The question might be whether to go back to the gate after ninety minutes on the tarmac or when, exactly, to turn on the seatbelt sign. The airline might like rules because they limit pilots’ discretion, thus reducing error. But it might also believe that under some circumstances, pilots ought to use their best judgment. In these situations, standards might be much better than rules, even if they produce some noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">In all these cases and many more, those who decide between rules and standards must focus on the problem of noise, the problem of bias, or both. Businesses, both large and small, have to make that decision all the time. Sometimes they do so intuitively and without much of a framework.</div>
<div class="s4P">Standards come in many shapes and sizes. They can have essentially no content: “do what is appropriate, under the circumstances.” They can be written so as to approach rules—as, for example, when what is appropriate is specifically defined, to limit judges’ discretion. Rules and standards can also be mixed and matched. For example, a personnel office might adopt a rule (“all <span id="page_330"></span>
applicants must have a college degree”) to precede the application of the standard (“subject to that constraint, choose people who will do a terrific job”).</div>
<div class="s4P">We have said that rules should reduce or possibly even eliminate noise and that standards will often produce a great deal of it (unless some noise-reduction strategy is adopted). In private and public organizations, noise is often a product of a failure to issue rules. When the noise is loud enough—when everyone can see that similarly situated people are not being treated similarly—there is often a movement in the direction of rules. As in the case of criminal sentencing, the movement might turn into an outcry. Some sort of noise audit typically precedes that outcry.</div>
<div class="s7D">The Return of the Repressed</div>
<div class="s4M">Consider an important question: who counts as disabled, such that they should qualify for economic benefits reserved for those who are unable to work? If the question is phrased that way, judges will make ad hoc decisions that will be noisy and therefore unfair. In the United States, such noisy, unfair decisions were once the norm, and the results were scandalous. Two seemingly identical people in wheelchairs or with severe depression or chronic pain would be treated differently. In response, public officials shifted to something far more like a rule—a <span class="s2WT-0">disability matrix.</span>
 The matrix calls for relatively mechanical judgments on the basis of education, geographical location, and remaining physical capacities. The goal is to make the decisions less noisy.</div>
<div class="s4P">The leading discussion of the problem, written by law professor Jerry Mashaw, gives a name to the effort to eliminate noisy judgments: <span class="s2WT-0">bureaucratic justice.</span>
 The term is worth remembering. Mashaw celebrates the creation of the matrix as fundamentally just, precisely because it promises to eliminate noise. In some situations, however, the promise of bureaucratic justice might not be realized. Whenever an institution shifts to rule-bound decisions, there is a risk that noise will reemerge.</div>
<div class="s4P">Suppose that rules produce terrible results in particular cases. If so, judges might simply ignore the rules, thinking that they are far too harsh. For that reason, they might exercise discretion <span id="page_331"></span>
through a mild form of civil disobedience, which can be hard to police or even see. In private companies, employees ignore firm rules that seem stupid. Similarly, administrative agencies charged with protecting public safety and health can simply refuse to enforce statutes when they are too rigid and rule-like. In criminal law, <span class="s2WT-0">jury nullification</span>
 refers to situations in which juries simply refuse to follow the law, on the ground that it is senselessly rigid and harsh.</div>
<div class="s4P">Whenever a public or private institution tries to control noise through firm rules, it must always be alert to the possibility that the rules will simply drive discretion underground. With the three-strikes policy, the frequent response of prosecutors—to avoid making a felony charge against people who had been convicted twice—was extremely difficult to control and even see.</div>
<div class="s4P">When such things happen, there will be noise, but no one will hear it. We need to monitor our rules to make sure they are operating as intended. If they are not, the existence of noise might be a clue, and the rules should be revised.</div>
<div class="s7D">A Framework</div>
<div class="s4M">In business and in government, the choice between rules and standards is often made intuitively, but it can be made more disciplined. As a first approximation, the choice depends on just two factors: (1) the costs of decisions and (2) the costs of errors.</div>
<div class="s4P">With standards, the costs of decisions can be very high for judges of all kinds, simply because they have to work to give them content. Exercising judgment can be burdensome. If doctors are told to make their best judgment, they might have to spend time thinking about each case (and the judgments might well be noisy). If doctors are given clear guidelines to decide whether patients have strep throat, their decisions might be fast and relatively straightforward. If the speed limit is sixty-five miles per hour, police officers do not have to think hard about how fast people are allowed to go, but if the standard is that people may not drive “unreasonably fast,” officers have to do a lot more thinking (and the enforcement will almost certainly be noisy). With rules, the costs of decisions are typically much lower.</div>
<div class="s4P">Still, it’s complicated. Rules may be straightforward to apply once they are in place, but before a rule is put in place, <span id="page_332"></span>
<span class="s2WT-0">someone has to decide what it is.</span>
 Producing a rule can be hard. Sometimes it is prohibitively costly. Legal systems and private companies therefore often use words such as <span class="s2WT-0">reasonable, prudent,</span>
 and <span class="s2WT-0">feasible.</span>
 This is also why terms like these play an equally important role in fields such as medicine and engineering.</div>
<div class="s4P">The costs of errors refer to the number and the magnitude of mistakes. A pervasive question is whether agents are knowledgeable and reliable, and whether they practice decision hygiene. If they are, and if they do, then a standard might work just fine—and there might be little noise. Principals need to impose rules when they have reason to distrust their agents. If agents are incompetent or biased and if they cannot feasibly implement decision hygiene, then they should be constrained by rules. Sensible organizations well understand that the amount of discretion they grant is closely connected with the level of trust they have in their agents.</div>
<div class="s4P">Of course there is a continuum from perfect trust to complete distrust. A standard might lead to numerous errors by less-than-trustworthy agents, but if those errors are minor, they might be tolerable. A rule might lead to only a few mistakes, but if they are catastrophic, we might want a standard. We should be able to see that there is no <span class="s2WT-0">general</span>
 reason to think that the costs of errors are larger with either rules or standards. If a rule is perfect, of course, it will produce no errors. But rules are rarely perfect.</div>
<div class="s4P">Suppose that the law says that you can buy liquor only if you are 21 or older. The law aims to protect young people from the various risks associated with alcohol consumption. Understood in this way, the law will produce plenty of mistakes. Some people who are 20 or 19 or 18 or even 17 can do just fine with liquor. Some people who are 22 or 42 or 62 cannot. A standard would produce fewer errors—if we could find a suitable form of words and if people could apply these words accurately. Of course, that is very hard to do, which is why we almost always see simple rules, based on age, for liquor sales.</div>
<div class="s4P">This example suggests a much larger point. Whenever numerous decisions must be made, there might well be a lot of noise, and there is a strong argument for clear rules. If dermatologists are seeing a large number of patients with itchy rashes and moles, they might make fewer errors if their judgments are constrained by <span id="page_333"></span>
sensible rules. Without such rules, and with open-ended standards, the costs of decisions tend to become impossibly large. For repeated decisions, there are real advantages to moving in the direction of mechanical rules rather than ad hoc judgments. The burdens of exercising discretion turn out to be great, and the costs of noise, or the unfairness it creates, might well be intolerable.</div>
<div class="s4P">Smart organizations are keenly aware of the disadvantages of both ways of regulating behavior. They enlist rules, or standards that are close to rules, as a way of reducing noise (and bias). And to minimize the costs of errors, they are willing to devote considerable time and attention, in advance, to ensuring that the rules are accurate (enough).</div>
<div class="s7D">Outlawing Noise?</div>
<div class="s4M">In many situations, noise should be a scandal. People live with it, but they should not have to do that. A simple response is to shift from open-ended discretion or a vague standard to a rule or something close to it. We now have a sense of when the simple response is the right response. But even when a rule is not feasible or not a good idea, we have identified an assortment of strategies to reduce noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">All this raises a large question: should the legal system outlaw noise? It would be too simple to answer yes, but the law should be doing much more than it now does to control noise. Here is one way to think about the problem. The German sociologist Max Weber complained of “Kadi justice,” which he understood as informal, ad hoc judgments undisciplined by general rules. In Weber’s view, Kadi justice was intolerably case by case; it was a violation of the rule of law. As Weber put it, the judge “precisely did not adjudicate according to formal rules and ‘without regard to persons.’ Just the reverse largely obtained; he judged persons according to their concrete qualities and in terms of the concrete situation, or according to equity and the appropriateness of the concrete result.”</div>
<div class="s4P">This approach, Weber argued, “knows no rational rules of decision.” We can easily see Weber as complaining about intolerable noise that Kadi justice ensured. Weber celebrated the rise of bureaucratic judgments, disciplined in advance. (Recall the idea of <span id="page_334"></span>
bureaucratic justice.) He saw specialized, professional, and rule-bound approaches as the final stage in the evolution of law. But long after Weber wrote, it is clear that Kadi justice, or something like it, remains pervasive. The question is what to do about it.</div>
<div class="s4P">We would not go so far as to say that noise reduction should be part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but in some cases, noise can be counted as a rights violation, and in general, legal systems all over the world should be making much greater efforts to control noise. Consider criminal sentencing; civil fines for wrongdoing; and the grant or denial of asylum, educational opportunities, visas, building permits, and occupational licenses. Or suppose that a large government agency is hiring hundreds or even thousands of people and that its decisions have no rhyme or reason; there is a cacophony of noise. Or suppose that a child custody agency treats young children very differently, depending on whether one or another employee is assigned to the case. How is it acceptable that a child’s life and future depend on that lottery?</div>
<div class="s4P">In many cases, variability in such decisions is clearly driven by biases, including identifiable cognitive biases and certain forms of discrimination. When that is so, people tend to find the situation intolerable, and the law may be invoked as a corrective, requiring new and different practices. Organizations all over the world see bias as a villain. They are right. They do not see noise that way. They should.</div>
<div class="s4P">In many areas, the current level of noise is far too high. It is imposing high costs and producing terrible unfairness. What we have cataloged here is the tip of the iceberg. The law should do much more to reduce those costs. It should combat that unfairness.</div>
<div class="s84">Speaking of Rules and Standards</div>
<div class="s86">
<span class="class-2">“Rules simplify life, and reduce noise. But standards allow people to adjust to the particulars of the situations.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“Rules or standards? First, ask which produces more mistakes. Then, ask which is easier or more burdensome to produce or work with.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“We often use standards when we should embrace rules—simply because we don’t pay attention to noise.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s8A">
<span class="class-2">“Noise reduction shouldn’t be part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights—at least not yet. Still, noise can be horribly unfair.</span>
 <span id="page_335" class="class-2"></span>
<span class="class-2">All over the world, legal systems should consider taking strong steps to reduce it.”</span>
</div>
</body>
</html>
