<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0028</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_206" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XE">PART V</a>
</div>
<div class="s6D">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XE">Improving Judgments</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">H</span>
ow can an organization improve the judgments its professionals make? In particular, how can an organization reduce judgment noise? If you were in charge of answering these questions, how would you go about it?</div>
<div class="s4P">A necessary first step is to get the organization to recognize that noise in professional judgments is an issue that deserves attention. To get to that point, we recommend a noise audit (see appendix A for a detailed description). In a noise audit, multiple individuals judge the same problems. Noise is the variability of these judgments. There will be cases in which this variability can be attributed to incompetence: some judges know what they are talking about, others do not. When there is such a skill gap (either in general, or on certain types of cases), the priority should of course be to improve the deficient skills. But, as we have seen, there can be a large amount of noise even in the judgments of competent and well-trained professionals.</div>
<div class="s4P">If the amount of system noise is worth addressing, replacing judgment with rules or algorithms is an option that you should consider, as it will eliminate noise entirely. But rules have their own problems (as we will see in <a href="part0037.xhtml">part 6</a>
), and even the most enthusiastic proponents of AI agree that algorithms are not, and will not soon be, a universal substitute for human judgment. The task of improving judgment is as urgent as ever, and it is the topic of this part of the book.</div>
<div class="s4P">A sensible way to improve judgments is, of course, to select the best possible human judges. At the shooting range, some shooters have an especially good aim. The same is true of any professional judgment task: the most highly skilled will be both less <span id="page_207"></span>
noisy and less biased. How to find the best judges is sometimes obvious; if you want to solve a chess problem, ask a grandmaster, not the authors of this book. But in most problems, the characteristics of superior judges are harder to discern. These characteristics are the subject of <a href="part0029.xhtml">chapter 18</a>
.</div>
<div class="s4P">Next, we discuss approaches to the reduction of judgment errors. Psychological biases are implicated in both statistical bias and noise. As we see in <a href="part0030.xhtml">chapter 19</a>
, there have been many attempts to counteract psychological biases, with some clear failures and some clear successes. We briefly review debiasing strategies and suggest a promising approach that, to our knowledge, has not been systematically explored: asking a designated <span class="s2WT-0">decision observer</span>
 to search for diagnostic signs that could indicate, in real time, that a group’s work is being affected by one or several familiar biases. Appendix B provides an example of a bias checklist that a decision observer could use.</div>
<div class="s4P">We then proceed to our main focus in this part of the book: the fight against noise. We introduce the theme of <span class="s2WT-0">decision hygiene,</span>
 the approach we recommend to reduce noise in human judgments. We present case studies in five different domains. In each domain, we examine the prevalence of noise and some of the horror stories it generates. We also review the success—or the lack of success—of efforts to reduce noise. In each domain, of course, multiple approaches have been used, but for ease of exposition, each chapter emphasizes a single decision hygiene strategy.</div>
<div class="s4P">We start in <a href="part0031.xhtml">chapter 20</a>
 with the case of forensic science, which illustrates the importance of <span class="s2WT-0">sequencing information</span>
. The search for coherence leads people to form early impressions based on the limited evidence available and then to confirm their emerging prejudgment. This makes it important not to be exposed to irrelevant information early in the judgment process.</div>
<div class="s4P">In <a href="part0032.xhtml">chapter 21</a>
, we turn to the case of forecasting, which illustrates the value of one of the most important noise-reduction strategies: <span class="s2WT-0">aggregating multiple independent judgments.</span>
 The “wisdom of crowds” principle is based on the averaging of multiple independent judgments, which is guaranteed to reduce noise. Beyond straight averaging, there are other methods for aggregating judgments, also illustrated by the example of forecasting.</div>
<div class="s4P">
<a href="part0033.xhtml">Chapter 22</a>
 offers a review of noise in medicine and efforts to <span id="page_208"></span>
reduce it. It points to the importance and general applicability of a noise-reduction strategy we already introduced with the example of criminal sentencing: <span class="s2WT-0">judgment guidelines</span>
. Guidelines can be a powerful noise-reduction mechanism because they directly reduce between-judge variability in final judgments.</div>
<div class="s4P">In <a href="part0034.xhtml">chapter 23</a>
, we turn to a familiar challenge in business life: performance evaluations. Efforts to reduce noise there demonstrate the critical importance of using a <span class="s2WT-0">shared scale grounded in an outside view</span>
. This is an important decision hygiene strategy for a simple reason: judgment entails the translation of an impression onto a scale, and if different judges use different scales, there will be noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">
<a href="part0035.xhtml">Chapter 24</a>
 explores the related but distinct topic of personnel selection, which has been extensively researched over the past hundred years. It illustrates the value of an essential decision hygiene strategy: <span class="s2WT-0">structuring complex judgments</span>
. By <span class="s2WT-0">structuring,</span>
 we mean decomposing a judgment into its component parts, managing the process of data collection to ensure the inputs are independent of one another, and delaying the holistic discussion and the final judgment until all these inputs have been collected.</div>
<div class="s4P">We build on the lessons learned from the field of personnel selection to propose, in <a href="part0036.xhtml">chapter 25</a>
, a general approach to option evaluation called the <span class="s2WT-0">mediating assessments protocol,</span>
 or MAP for short. MAP starts from the premise that “options are like candidates” and describes schematically how structured decision making, along with the other decision hygiene strategies mentioned above, can be introduced in a typical decision process for both recurring and singular decisions.</div>
<div class="s4P">A general point before we embark: it would be valuable to be able to specify, and even to quantify, the likely benefits of each decision hygiene strategy in various contexts. It would also be valuable to know which of the strategies is most beneficial and how to compare them. When the information flow is controlled, to what extent is noise reduced? If the goal is to reduce noise, in practice, how many judgments should be aggregated? Structuring judgments can be valuable, but exactly how valuable is it in different contexts?</div>
<div class="s4P">Because the topic of noise has attracted little attention, these remain open questions, which research could eventually address. For practical purposes, the benefits of one or another strategy will <span id="page_209"></span>
depend on the particular setting in which it is being used. Consider the adoption of guidelines: they will sometimes produce massive benefits (as we will see in some medical diagnoses). In other settings, however, the benefits of adopting guidelines might be modest—perhaps because there is not a lot of noise to begin with or perhaps because even the best possible guidelines do not reduce error much. In any given context, a decision maker should aspire to achieve a more precise understanding of the likely gains from each decision hygiene strategy—and of the corresponding costs, which we discuss in <a href="part0037.xhtml">part 6</a>
.</div>
</body>
</html>
