<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0010</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_36" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XP">CHAPTER 3</a>
</div>
<div class="s6T">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XP">Singular Decisions</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">T</span>
he case studies we have discussed thus far involve judgments that are made repeatedly. What is the right sentence for someone convicted of theft? What is the right premium for a particular risk? While each case is in some sense unique, judgments like these are <span class="s2WT-0">recurrent decisions</span>
. Doctors diagnosing patients, judges hearing parole cases, admissions officers reviewing applications, accountants preparing tax forms—these are all examples of recurrent decisions.</div>
<div class="s4P">Noise in recurrent decisions is demonstrated by a noise audit, such as those we introduced in the previous chapter. Unwanted variability is easy to define and measure when interchangeable professionals make decisions in similar cases. It seems much harder, or perhaps even impossible, to apply the idea of noise to a category of judgments that we call <span class="s2WT-0">singular decisions</span>
.</div>
<div class="s4P">Consider, for instance, the crisis the world faced in 2014. In West Africa, numerous people were dying from Ebola. Because the world is interconnected, projections suggested that infections would rapidly spread all over the world and hit Europe and North America particularly hard. In the United States, there were insistent calls to shut down air travel from affected regions and to take aggressive steps to close the borders. The political pressure to move in that direction was intense, and prominent and well-informed people favored those steps.</div>
<div class="s4P">President Barack Obama was faced with one of the most difficult decisions of his presidency—one that he had not encountered before and never encountered again. He chose not to close any borders. Instead he sent three thousand people—health workers and soldiers—to West Africa. He led a diverse, international <span id="page_37"></span>
coalition of nations that did not always work well together, using their resources and expertise to tackle the problem at its source.</div>
<div class="s7D">Singular Versus Recurrent</div>
<div class="s4M">Decisions that are made only once, like the president’s Ebola response, are singular because they are not made recurrently by the same individual or team, they lack a prepackaged response, and they are marked by genuinely unique features. In dealing with Ebola, President Obama and his team had no real precedents on which to draw. Important political decisions are often good examples of singular decisions, as are the most fateful choices of military commanders.</div>
<div class="s4P">In the private realm, decisions you make when choosing a job, buying a house, or proposing marriage have the same characteristics. Even if this is not your first job, house, or marriage, and despite the fact that countless people have faced these decisions before, the decision feels unique to you. In business, heads of companies are often called on to make what seem like unique decisions to them: whether to launch a potentially game-changing innovation, how much to close down during a pandemic, whether to open an office in a foreign country, or whether to capitulate to a government that seeks to regulate them.</div>
<div class="s4P">Arguably, there is a continuum, not a category difference, between singular and recurrent decisions. Underwriters may deal with some cases that strike them as very much out of the ordinary. Conversely, if you are buying a house for the fourth time in your life, you have probably started to think of home buying as a recurrent decision. But extreme examples clearly suggest that the difference is meaningful. Going to war is one thing; going through annual budget reviews is another.</div>
<div class="s7D">Noise in Singular Decisions</div>
<div class="s4M">Singular decisions have traditionally been treated as quite separate from the recurrent judgments that interchangeable employees routinely make in large organizations. While social scientists have dealt with recurrent decisions, high-stakes singular decisions have <span id="page_38"></span>
been the province of historians and management gurus. The approaches to the two types of decisions have been quite different. Analyses of recurrent decisions have often taken a statistical bent, with social scientists assessing many similar decisions to discern patterns, identify regularities, and measure accuracy. In contrast, discussions of singular decisions typically adopt a causal view; they are conducted in hindsight and are focused on identifying the causes of what happened. Historical analyses, like case studies of management successes and failures, aim to understand how an essentially unique judgment was made.</div>
<div class="s4P">The nature of singular decisions raises an important question for the study of noise. We have defined noise as undesirable variability in judgments of the same problem. Since singular problems are never exactly repeated, this definition does not apply to them. After all, history is only run once. You will never be able to compare Obama’s decision to send health workers and soldiers to West Africa in 2014 with the decisions other American presidents made about how to handle that particular problem at that particular time (though you can speculate). You may agree to compare your decision to marry that special someone with the decisions of other people like you, but that comparison will not be as relevant to you as the one we made between the quotes of underwriters on the same case. You and your spouse are unique. There is no direct way to observe the presence of noise in singular decisions.</div>
<div class="s4P">Yet singular decisions are not free from the factors that produce noise in recurrent decisions. At the shooting range, the shooters on Team C (the noisy team) may be adjusting the gunsight on their rifle in different directions, or their hands may just be unsteady. If we observed only the first shooter on the team, we would have no idea how noisy the team is, but the sources of noise would still be there. Similarly, when you make a singular decision, you have to imagine that another decision maker, even one just as competent as you and sharing the same goals and values, would not reach the same conclusion from the same facts. And as the decision maker, you should recognize that you might have made a different decision if some irrelevant aspects of the situation or of the decision-making process had been different.</div>
<div class="s4P">In other words, we cannot measure noise in a singular decision, but if we think counterfactually, we know for sure that <span id="page_39"></span>
noise is there. Just as the shooter’s unsteady hand implies that a single shot <span class="s2WT-0">could</span>
 have landed somewhere else, noise in the decision makers and in the decision-making process implies that the singular decision <span class="s2WT-0">could</span>
 have been different.</div>
<div class="s4P">Consider all the factors that affect a singular decision. If the experts in charge of analyzing the Ebola threat and preparing response plans had been different people, with different backgrounds and life experiences, would their proposals to President Obama have been the same? If the same facts had been presented in a slightly different manner, would the conversation have unfolded the same way? If the key players had been in a different mood or had been meeting during a snowstorm, would the final decision have been identical? Seen in this light, the singular decision does not seem so determined. Depending on many factors that we are not even aware of, the decision could plausibly have been different.</div>
<div class="s4P">For another exercise in counterfactual thinking, consider how different countries and regions responded to the COVID-19 crisis. Even when the virus hit them roughly at the same time and in a similar manner, there were wide differences in responses. This variation provides clear evidence of noise in different countries’ decision making. But what if the epidemic had struck a single country? In that case, we wouldn’t have observed any variability. But our inability to observe variability would not make the decision less noisy.</div>
<div class="s7D">Controlling Noise in Singular Decisions</div>
<div class="s4M">This theoretical discussion matters. If singular decisions are just as noisy as recurrent ones, then the strategies that reduce noise in recurrent decisions should also improve the quality of singular decisions.</div>
<div class="s4P">This is a more counterintuitive prescription than it seems. When you have a one-of-a-kind decision to make, your instinct is probably to treat it as, well, one of a kind. Some even claim that the rules of probabilistic thinking are entirely irrelevant to singular decisions made under uncertainty and that such decisions call for a radically different approach.</div>
<div id="page_40" class="s4P">Our observations here suggest the opposite advice. From the perspective of noise reduction, <span class="s2WT-0">a singular decision is a recurrent decision that happens only once.</span>
 Whether you make a decision only once or a hundred times, your goal should be to make it in a way that reduces both bias and noise. And practices that reduce error should be just as effective in your one-of-a-kind decisions as in your repeated ones.</div>
<div class="s84">Speaking of Singular Decisions</div>
<div class="s86">
<span class="class-2">“The way you approach this unusual opportunity exposes you to noise.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“Remember: a singular decision is a recurrent decision that is made only once.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s8A">
<span class="class-2">“The personal experiences that made you who you are are not truly relevant to this decision.”</span>
</div>
</body>
</html>
