<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0042</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_350" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2Y1">EPILOGUE</a>
</div>
<div class="s6T">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2Y1">A Less Noisy World</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">I</span>
magine what organizations would look like if they were redesigned to reduce noise. Hospitals, hiring committees, economic forecasters, government agencies, insurance companies, public health authorities, criminal justice systems, law firms, and universities would be keenly alert to the problem of noise and strive to reduce it. Noise audits would be routine; they might be undertaken every year.</div>
<div class="s4P">Leaders of organizations would use algorithms either to replace human judgment or to supplement it in far more areas than they do today. People would break down complex judgments into simpler mediating assessments. They would know about decision hygiene and follow its prescriptions. Independent judgments would be elicited and aggregated. Meetings would look very different; discussions would be more structured. An outside view would be more systematically integrated into the decision process. Overt disagreements would be both more frequent and more constructively resolved.</div>
<div class="s4P">The result would a be less noisy world. It would save a great deal of money, improve public safety and health, increase fairness, and prevent many avoidable errors. Our aim in writing this book has been to draw attention to this opportunity. We hope that you will be among those who seize it.</div>
</body>
</html>
