<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0009</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_26" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2X3">CHAPTER 2</a>
</div>
<div class="s6T">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2X3">A Noisy System</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">O</span>
ur initial encounter with noise, and what first triggered our interest in the topic, was not nearly so dramatic as a brush with the criminal justice system. Actually, the encounter was a kind of accident, involving an insurance company that had engaged the consulting firm with which two of us were affiliated.</div>
<div class="s4P">Of course, the topic of insurance is not everyone’s cup of tea. But our findings show the magnitude of the problem of noise in a for-profit organization that stands to lose a lot from noisy decisions. Our experience with the insurance company helps explain why the problem is so often unseen and what might be done about it.</div>
<div class="s4P">The insurance company’s executives were weighing the potential value of an effort to increase consistency—to reduce noise—in the judgments of people who made significant financial decisions on the firm’s behalf. Everyone agreed that consistency is desirable. Everyone also agreed that these judgments could never be entirely consistent, because they are informal and partly subjective. Some noise is inevitable.</div>
<div class="s4P">Disagreement emerged when it came to its magnitude. The executives doubted that noise could be a substantial problem for their company. Much to their credit, however, they agreed to settle the question by a kind of simple experiment that we will call a <span class="s2WT-0">noise audit</span>
. The result surprised them. It also turned out to be a perfect illustration of the problem of noise.</div>
<div class="s7D">A Lottery That Creates Noise</div>
<div class="s4M">Many professionals in any large company are authorized to make <span id="page_27"></span>
judgments that bind the company. For example, this insurance company employs numerous underwriters who quote premiums for financial risks, such as insuring a bank against losses due to fraud or rogue trading. It also employs many claims adjusters who forecast the cost of future claims and also negotiate with claimants if disputes arise.</div>
<div class="s4P">Every large branch of the company has several qualified underwriters. When a quote is requested, anyone who happens to be available may be assigned to prepare it. In effect, the particular underwriter who will determine a quote is selected by a lottery.</div>
<div class="s4P">The exact value of the quote has significant consequences for the company. A high premium is advantageous if the quote is accepted, but such a premium risks losing the business to a competitor. A low premium is more likely to be accepted, but it is less advantageous to the company. For any risk, there is a Goldilocks price that is just right—neither too high nor too low—and there is a good chance that the average judgment of a large group of professionals is not too far from this Goldilocks number. Prices that are higher or lower than this number are costly—this is how the variability of noisy judgments hurts the bottom line.</div>
<div class="s4P">The job of claims adjusters also affects the finances of the company. For example, suppose that a claim is submitted on behalf of a worker (the claimant) who permanently lost the use of his right hand in an industrial accident. An adjuster is assigned to the claim—just as the underwriter was assigned, because she happens to be available. The adjuster gathers the facts of the case and provides an estimate of its ultimate cost to the company. The same adjuster then takes charge of negotiating with the claimant’s representative to ensure that the claimant receives the benefits promised in the policy while also protecting the company from making excessive payments.</div>
<div class="s4P">The early estimate matters because it sets an implicit goal for the adjuster in future negotiations with the claimant. The insurance company is also legally obligated to reserve the predicted cost of each claim (i.e., to have enough cash to be able to pay it). Here again, there is a Goldilocks value from the perspective of the company. A settlement is not guaranteed, as there is an attorney for the claimant on the other side, who may choose to go to court if the offer is miserly. On the other hand, an overly generous reserve may <span id="page_28"></span>
allow the adjuster too much latitude to agree to frivolous demands. The adjuster’s judgment is consequential for the company—and even more consequential for the claimant.</div>
<div class="s4P">We use the word <span class="s2WT-0">lottery</span>
 to emphasize the role of chance in the selection of one underwriter or adjuster. In the normal operation of the company, a single professional is assigned to a case, and no one can ever know what would have happened if another colleague had been selected instead.</div>
<div class="s4P">Lotteries have their place, and they need not be unjust. Acceptable lotteries are used to allocate “goods,” like courses in some universities, or “bads,” like the draft in the military. They serve a purpose. But the judgment lotteries we talk about allocate nothing. They just produce uncertainty. Imagine an insurance company whose underwriters are noiseless and set the optimal premium, but a chance device then intervenes to modify the quote that the client actually sees. Evidently, there would be no justification for such a lottery. Neither is there any justification for a system in which the outcome depends on the identity of the person randomly chosen to make a professional judgment.</div>
<div class="s7D">Noise Audits Reveal System Noise</div>
<div class="s4M">The lottery that picks a particular judge to establish a criminal sentence or a single shooter to represent a team creates variability, but this variability remains unseen. A noise audit—like the one conducted on federal judges with respect to sentencing—is a way to reveal noise. In such an audit, the same case is evaluated by many individuals, and the variability of their responses is made visible.</div>
<div class="s4P">The judgments of underwriters and claims adjusters lend themselves especially well to this exercise because their decisions are based on written information. To prepare for the noise audit, executives of the company constructed detailed descriptions of five representative cases for each group (underwriters and adjusters). Employees were asked to evaluate two or three cases each, working independently. They were not told that the purpose of the study was to examine the variability of their judgments.</div>
<div class="s4P">Before reading on, you may want to think of your own answer to the following questions: In a well-run insurance company, if you <span id="page_29"></span>
randomly selected two qualified underwriters or claims adjusters, how different would you expect their estimates for the same case to be? Specifically, what would be the difference between the two estimates, as a percentage of their average?</div>
<div class="s4P">We asked numerous executives in the company for their answers, and in subsequent years, we have obtained estimates from a wide variety of people in different professions. Surprisingly, one answer is clearly more popular than all others. Most executives of the insurance company guessed 10% or less. When we asked 828 CEOs and senior executives from a variety of industries how much variation they expected to find in similar expert judgments, 10% was also the median answer and the most frequent one (the second most popular was 15%). A 10% difference would mean, for instance, that one of the two underwriters set a premium of $9,500 while the other quoted $10,500. Not a negligible difference, but one that an organization can be expected to tolerate.</div>
<div class="s4P">Our noise audit found much greater differences. By our measure, the median difference in underwriting was 55%, about five times as large as was expected by most people, including the company’s executives. This result means, for instance, that when one underwriter sets a premium at $9,500, the other does not set it at $10,500—but instead quotes $16,700. For claims adjusters, the median ratio was 43%. We stress that these results are medians: in half the pairs of cases, the difference between the two judgments was even larger.</div>
<div class="s4P">The executives to whom we reported the results of the noise audit were quick to realize that the sheer volume of noise presented an expensive problem. One senior executive estimated that the company’s annual cost of noise in underwriting—counting both the loss of business from excessive quotes and the losses incurred on underpriced contracts—was in the hundreds of millions of dollars.</div>
<div class="s4P">No one could say precisely how much error (or how much bias) there was, because no one could know for sure the Goldilocks value for each case. But no one needed to see the bull’s-eye to measure the scatter on the back of the target and to realize that the variability was a problem. The data showed that the price a customer is asked to pay depends to an uncomfortable extent on the lottery that picks the employee who will deal with that transaction. To say the least, customers would not be pleased to hear that they <span id="page_30"></span>
were signed up for such a lottery without their consent. More generally, people who deal with organizations expect a system that reliably delivers consistent judgments. They do not expect system noise.</div>
<div class="s7D">Unwanted Variability Versus Wanted Diversity</div>
<div class="s4M">A defining feature of system noise is that it is <span class="s2WT-0">unwanted,</span>
 and we should stress right here that variability in judgments is not always unwanted.</div>
<div class="s4P">Consider matters of preference or taste. If ten film critics watch the same movie, if ten wine tasters rate the same wine, or if ten people read the same novel, we do not expect them to have the same opinion. Diversity of tastes is welcome and entirely expected. No one would want to live in a world in which everyone has exactly the same likes and dislikes. (Well, almost no one.) But diversity of tastes can help account for errors if a personal taste is mistaken for a professional judgment. If a film producer decides to go forward with an unusual project (about, say, the rise and fall of the rotary phone) because she personally likes the script, she might have made a major mistake if no one else likes it.</div>
<div class="s4P">Variability in judgments is also expected and welcome in a competitive situation in which the best judgments will be rewarded. When several companies (or several teams in the same organization) compete to generate innovative solutions to the same customer problem, we don’t want them to focus on the same approach. The same is true when multiple teams of researchers attack a scientific problem, such as the development of a vaccine: we very much want them to look at it from different angles. Even forecasters sometimes behave like competitive players. The analyst who correctly calls a recession that no one else has anticipated is sure to gain fame, whereas the one who never strays from the consensus remains obscure. In such settings, variability in ideas and judgments is again welcome, because variation is only the first step. In a second phase, the results of these judgments will be pitted against one another, and the best will triumph. In a market as in nature, selection cannot work without variation.</div>
<div class="s4P">Matters of taste and competitive settings all pose interesting <span id="page_31"></span>
problems of judgment. But our focus is on judgments in which variability is undesirable. System noise is a problem of systems, which are organizations, not markets. When traders make different assessments of the value of a stock, some of them will make money, and others will not. Disagreements make markets. But if one of those traders is randomly chosen to make that assessment on behalf of her firm, and if we find out that her colleagues in the same firm would produce very different assessments, then the firm faces system noise, and that is a problem.</div>
<div class="s4P">An elegant illustration of the issue arose when we presented our findings to the senior managers of an asset management firm, prompting them to run their own exploratory noise audit. They asked forty-two experienced investors in the firm to estimate the fair value of a stock (the price at which the investors would be indifferent to buying or selling). The investors based their analysis on a one-page description of the business; the data included simplified profit and loss, balance sheet, and cash flow statements for the past three years and projections for the next two. Median noise, measured in the same way as in the insurance company, was 41%. Such large differences among investors in the same firm, using the same valuation methods, cannot be good news.</div>
<div class="s4P">Wherever the person making a judgment is randomly selected from a pool of equally qualified individuals, as is the case in this asset management firm, in the criminal justice system, and in the insurance company discussed earlier, noise is a problem. System noise plagues many organizations: an assignment process that is effectively random often decides which doctor sees you in a hospital, which judge hears your case in a courtroom, which patent examiner reviews your application, which customer service representative hears your complaint, and so on. Unwanted variability in these judgments can cause serious problems, including a loss of money and rampant unfairness.</div>
<div class="s4P">A frequent misconception about unwanted variability in judgments is that it doesn’t matter, because random errors supposedly cancel one another out. Certainly, positive and negative errors in a judgment about the same case will tend to cancel one another out, and we will discuss in detail how this property can be used to reduce noise. But noisy systems do not make multiple judgments of the same case. They make noisy judgments of different <span id="page_32"></span>
cases. If one insurance policy is overpriced and another is underpriced, pricing may on average look right, but the insurance company has made two costly errors. If two felons who both should be sentenced to five years in prison receive sentences of three years and seven years, justice has not, on average, been done. In noisy systems, errors do not cancel out. They add up.</div>
<div class="s7D">The Illusion of Agreement</div>
<div class="s4M">A large literature going back several decades has documented noise in professional judgment. Because we were aware of this literature, the results of the insurance company’s noise audit did not surprise us. What did surprise us, however, was the reaction of the executives to whom we reported our findings: no one at the company had expected anything like the amount of noise we had observed. No one questioned the validity of the audit, and no one claimed that the observed amount of noise was acceptable. Yet the problem of noise—and its large cost—seemed like a new one for the organization. Noise was like a leak in the basement. It was tolerated not because it was thought acceptable but because it had remained unnoticed.</div>
<div class="s4P">How could that be? How could professionals in the same role and in the same office differ so much from one another without becoming aware of it? How could executives fail to make this observation, which they understood to be a significant threat to the performance and reputation of their company? We came to see that the problem of system noise often goes unrecognized in organizations and that the common inattention to noise is as interesting as its prevalence. The noise audits suggested that respected professionals—and the organizations that employ them—maintained an <span class="s2WT-0">illusion of agreement</span>
 while in fact disagreeing in their daily professional judgments.</div>
<div class="s4P">To begin to understand how the illusion of agreement arises, put yourself in the shoes of an underwriter on a normal working day. You have more than five years of experience, you know that you are well regarded among your colleagues, and you respect and like them. You know you are good at your job. After thoroughly analyzing the complex risks faced by a financial firm, you conclude that a premium of $200,000 is appropriate. The problem is <span id="page_33"></span>
complex but not much different from those you solve every day of the week.</div>
<div class="s4P">Now imagine being told that your colleagues at the office have been given the same information and assessed the same risk. Could you believe that at least half of them have set a premium that is either higher than $255,000 or lower than $145,000? The thought is hard to accept. Indeed, we suspect that underwriters who heard about the noise audit and accepted its validity never truly believed that its conclusions applied to them personally.</div>
<div class="s4P">Most of us, most of the time, live with the unquestioned belief that the world looks as it does because that’s the way it is. There is one small step from this belief to another: “Other people view the world much the way I do.” These beliefs, which have been called <span class="s2WT-0">naive realism,</span>
 are essential to the sense of a reality we share with other people. We rarely question these beliefs. We hold a single interpretation of the world around us at any one time, and we normally invest little effort in generating plausible alternatives to it. One interpretation is enough, and we experience it as true. We do not go through life imagining alternative ways of seeing what we see.</div>
<div class="s4P">In the case of professional judgments, the belief that others see the world much as we do is reinforced every day in multiple ways. First, we share with our colleagues a common language and set of rules about the considerations that should matter in our decisions. We also have the reassuring experience of agreeing with others on the absurdity of judgments that violate these rules. We view the occasional disagreements with colleagues as lapses of judgment on their part. We have little opportunity to notice that our agreed-on rules are vague, sufficient to eliminate some possibilities but not to specify a shared positive response to a particular case. We can live comfortably with colleagues without ever noticing that they actually do not see the world as we do.</div>
<div class="s4P">One underwriter we interviewed described her experience in becoming a veteran in her department: “When I was new, I would discuss seventy-five percent of cases with my supervisor.… After a few years, I didn’t need to—I am now regarded as an expert.… Over time, I became more and more confident in my judgment.” Like many of us, this person had developed confidence in her judgment mainly by exercising it.</div>
<div class="s4P">The psychology of this process is well understood. <span id="page_34"></span>
Confidence is nurtured by the subjective experience of judgments that are made with increasing fluency and ease, in part because they resemble judgments made in similar cases in the past. Over time, as this underwriter learned to agree with her past self, her confidence in her judgments increased. She gave no indication that—after the initial apprenticeship phase—she had learned to agree with others, had checked to what extent she did agree with them, or had even tried to prevent her practices from drifting away from those of her colleagues.</div>
<div class="s4P">For the insurance company, the illusion of agreement was shattered only by the noise audit. How had the leaders of the company remained unaware of their noise problem? There are several possible answers here, but one that seems to play a large role in many settings is simply the discomfort of disagreement. Most organizations prefer consensus and harmony over dissent and conflict. The procedures in place often seem expressly designed to minimize the frequency of exposure to actual disagreements and, when such disagreements happen, to explain them away.</div>
<div class="s4P">Nathan Kuncel, a professor of psychology at the University of Minnesota and a leading researcher on the prediction of performance, shared with us a story that illustrates this problem. Kuncel was helping a school’s admissions office review its decision process. First a person read an application file, rated it, and then handed it off with ratings to a second reader, who then also rated it. Kuncel suggested—for reasons that will become obvious throughout this book—that it would be preferable to mask the first reader’s ratings so as not to influence the second reader. The school’s reply: “We used to do that, but it resulted in so many disagreements that we switched to the current system.” This school is not the only organization that considers conflict avoidance at least as important as making the right decision.</div>
<div class="s4P">Consider another mechanism that many companies resort to: postmortems of unfortunate judgments. As a learning mechanism, postmortems are useful. But if a mistake has truly been made—in the sense that a judgment strayed far from professional norms—discussing it will not be challenging. Experts will easily conclude that the judgment was way off the consensus. (They might also write it off as a rare exception.) Bad judgment is much easier to identify than good judgment. The calling out of egregious mistakes and the <span id="page_35"></span>
marginalization of bad colleagues will not help professionals become aware of how much they disagree when making broadly acceptable judgments. On the contrary, the easy consensus about bad judgments may even reinforce the illusion of agreement. The true lesson, about the ubiquity of system noise, will never be learned.</div>
<div class="s4P">We hope you are starting to share our view that system noise is a serious problem. Its existence is not a surprise; noise is a consequence of the informal nature of judgment. However, as we will see throughout this book, the amount of noise observed when an organization takes a serious look almost always comes as a shock. Our conclusion is simple: wherever there is judgment, there is noise, and more of it than you think.</div>
<div class="s84">Speaking of System Noise in the Insurance Company</div>
<div class="s86">
<span class="class-2">“We depend on the quality of professional judgments, by underwriters, claims adjusters, and others. We assign each case to one expert, but we operate under the wrong assumption that another expert would produce a similar judgment.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“System noise is five times larger than we thought—or than we can tolerate. Without a noise audit, we would never have realized that. The noise audit shattered the illusion of agreement.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“System noise is a serious problem: it costs us hundreds of millions.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s8A">
<span class="class-2">“Wherever there is judgment, there is noise—and more of it than we think.”</span>
</div>
</body>
</html>
