<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0043</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_351" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2X2">APPENDIX A</a>
</div>
<div class="s6T">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2X2">How to Conduct a Noise Audit</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">T</span>
his appendix provides a practical guide for conducting a noise audit. You should read it from the perspective of a consultant who has been engaged by an organization to examine the quality of the professional judgments its employees produce by conducting a noise audit in one of its units.</div>
<div class="s4P">As implied by its name, the focus of the audit is the prevalence of noise. However, a well-conducted audit will provide valuable information about biases, blind spots, and specific deficiencies in the training of employees and in the supervision of their work. A successful audit should stimulate changes in the operations of the unit, including in the doctrine that guides professionals’ judgments, the training they receive, the tools they use to support their judgments, and the routine supervision of their work. If the effort is considered successful, it may be extended to other units of the organization.</div>
<div class="s4P">A noise audit requires a substantial amount of work and much attention to detail because its credibility will surely be questioned if its findings reveal significant flaws. Every detail of the cases and the procedure should therefore be considered with hostile scrutiny in mind. The process we describe aims to reduce opposition by enlisting the professionals who are the most significant potential critics of the audit to be its authors.</div>
<div class="s4P">Alongside the consultant (who may be external or internal), the relevant cast of characters includes the following:</div>
<div class="s5K">
<span class="class-3">•</span>
 <span class="s2WT-4">Project team.</span>
 <span class="class-3">The project team will be responsible for all phases of the study. If the consultants are internal, they will form the core of the project team. If the consultants are external, an</span>
 <span id="page_352" class="class-3"></span>
<span class="class-3">internal project team will work closely with them. This will ensure that people in the company view the audit as</span>
 <span class="s2WT-4">their</span>
 <span class="class-3">project and consider the consultants as playing a supporting role. In addition to the consultants who administer the collection of data, analyze the results, and prepare a final report, the project team should include subject matter experts who can construct the cases that the judges will assess. All the members of the project team should have high professional credibility.</span>
</div>
<div class="s5N">
<span class="class-3">•</span>
 <span class="s2WT-4">Clients.</span>
 <span class="class-3">A noise audit will only be useful if it leads to significant changes, which requires early involvement of the leadership of the organization, which is the “client” of the project. You can expect clients to be initially skeptical about the prevalence of noise. This initial skepticism is actually an advantage if it is accompanied by an open-minded attitude, curiosity about the results of the audit, and a commitment to remedy the situation if the consultant’s pessimistic expectations are confirmed.</span>
</div>
<div class="s5N">
<span class="class-3">•</span>
 <span class="s2WT-4">Judges.</span>
 <span class="class-3">The clients will designate one or more units to be audited. The selected unit should consist of a substantial number of “judges,” the professionals who make similar judgments and decisions on behalf of the company. The judges should be effectively interchangeable; i.e., if one person was unavailable to handle a case, another would be assigned to it and expected to arrive at a similar judgment. The examples that introduced this book were sentencing decisions of federal judges and the setting of risk premiums and claims reserves in an insurance company. For a noise audit, it is best to select a judgment task that (1) can be completed on the basis of written information, and (2) is expressed numerically (e.g., in dollars, probabilities, or ratings).</span>
</div>
<div class="s5N">
<span class="class-3">•</span>
 <span class="s2WT-4">Project manager.</span>
 <span class="class-3">A high-level manager in the administrative staff should be designated as project manager. Specific professional expertise is not required for that task. However, a high position in the organization is of practical significance in overcoming administrative hurdles and is also a demonstration of the importance that the company attaches to the project. The task of the project manager is to provide administrative support</span>
 <span id="page_353" class="class-3"></span>
<span class="class-3">to facilitate all phases of the project, including the preparation of the final report and the communication of its conclusions to the leadership of the company.</span>
</div>
<div class="s7D">Construction of Case Materials</div>
<div class="s4M">The subject matter experts who are part of the project team should have recognized expertise in the task of the unit (e.g., setting premiums for risks or evaluating the potential of possible investments). They will be in charge of developing the cases that will be used in the audit. Designing a credible simulation of the judgments professionals make on the job is a delicate task—especially given the scrutiny that the study will undergo if it reveals serious problems. The team must consider this question: if the results of our simulation indicate a high level of noise, will people in the company accept that there is noise in the actual judgments of the unit? The noise audit is only worth carrying out if the answer is a clear yes.</div>
<div class="s4P">There is more than one way to achieve a positive response. The noise audit of sentencing described in <a href="part0008.xhtml">chapter 1</a>
 summarized each case by a brief schematic list of relevant attributes and obtained assessments of sixteen cases in ninety minutes. The noise audit in the insurance company described in <a href="part0009.xhtml">chapter 2</a>
 used detailed and realistic summaries of complex cases. Findings of high noise in both instances provided acceptable evidence because of the argument that if much disagreement was found in simplified cases, noise could only be worse in real cases.</div>
<div class="s4P">A questionnaire should be prepared for each case, to provide a deeper understanding of the reasoning that led each judge to a judgment of that case. The questionnaire should be administered only after the completion of all cases. It should include:</div>
<div class="s5K">
<span class="class-3">• Open questions about the key factors that led the participant to her response.</span>
</div>
<div class="s5N">
<span class="class-3">• A list of the facts of the case, allowing the participant to rate their importance.</span>
</div>
<div class="s5N">
<span class="class-3">• Questions that call for an “outside view” of the category to which</span>
 <span id="page_354" class="class-3"></span>
<span class="class-3">the case belongs. For instance, if the cases call for dollar valuations, participants should provide an estimate of how much below or above average the case is compared to all valuations for cases of the same category.</span>
</div>
<div class="s7D">Prelaunch Meeting with Executives</div>
<div class="s4M">When the case materials to be used in the audit are assembled, a meeting should be scheduled in which the project team will present the audit to the leadership of the company. The discussion in that meeting should consider possible outcomes of the study, including a finding of unacceptable system noise. The purpose of the meeting is to hear objections to the planned study and to obtain from the leadership a commitment to accept its results, whatever they are: there is no point moving on to the next stage without such a commitment. If serious objections are raised, the project team may be required to improve the case materials and try again.</div>
<div class="s4P">Once the executives accept the design of the noise audit, the project team should ask them to state their expectations about the results of the study. They should discuss questions such as:</div>
<div class="s5K">
<span class="class-3">• “What level of disagreement do you expect between a randomly selected pair of answers to each case?”</span>
</div>
<div class="s5N">
<span class="class-3">• “What is the maximum level of disagreement that would be acceptable from a business perspective?”</span>
</div>
<div class="s5W">
<span class="class-3">• “What is the estimated cost of getting an evaluation wrong in either direction (too high or low) by a specified amount (e.g., 15%)?”</span>
</div>
<div class="s4P">The answers to these questions should be documented to ensure that they are remembered and believed when the actual results of the audit come in.</div>
<div class="s7D">Administration of the Study</div>
<div class="s4M">The managers of the audited unit should be, from the beginning, <span id="page_355"></span>
informed in general terms that their unit has been selected for special study. However, it is important that the term <span class="s2WT-0">noise audit</span>
 not be used to describe the project. The words <span class="s2WT-0">noise</span>
 and <span class="s2WT-0">noisy</span>
 should be avoided, especially as descriptions of people. A neutral term such as <span class="s2WT-0">decision-making study</span>
 should be used instead.</div>
<div class="s4P">The managers of the unit will be immediately in charge of the data collection and responsible for briefing the participants about the task, with the participation of the project manager and members of the project team. The intent of the exercise should be described to the participants in general terms, as in <span class="s2WT-0">“The organization is interested in how [decision makers] reach their conclusions.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s4P">It is essential to reassure the professionals who participate in the study that individual answers will not be known to anyone in the organization, including the project team. If necessary, an outside firm may be hired to anonymize the data. It is also important to stress that there will be no specific consequences for the unit, which was merely selected as representative of units that perform judgment tasks on behalf of the organization. To ensure the credibility of the results, all qualified professionals in the unit should participate in the study. The allocation of half a working day to the exercise will help convince the participants of its importance.</div>
<div class="s4P">All participants should complete the exercise at the same time, but they should be kept physically separate and asked not to communicate while the study is in progress. The project team will be available to answer questions during the study.</div>
<div class="s7D">Analyses and Conclusions</div>
<div class="s4M">The project team will be in charge of the statistical analyses of the multiple cases evaluated by each participant, including the measurement of the overall amount of noise and its constituents, level noise and pattern noise. If the case materials allow it, it will also identify statistical biases in the responses. The project team will have the equally important task of trying to understand the sources of variability in judgments by examining responses to the questionnaire in which participants explained their reasoning and identified the facts that most influenced their decisions. Focusing mainly on extreme responses at both ends of the distribution, the <span id="page_356"></span>
team will search for patterns in the data. It will look for indications of possible deficiencies in the training of employees, the procedures of the organization, and the information that it provides to its employees.</div>
<div class="s4P">The consultant and the internal project team will work together to develop tools and procedures that apply principles of decision hygiene and debiasing to improve the judgments and decisions made in the unit. This step of the process is likely to extend over several months. In parallel, the consultant and the professional team will also prepare a report on the project, which they will present to the leadership of the organization.</div>
<div class="s4P">At this point, the organization will have carried out a sample noise audit in one of its units. If the effort is considered successful, the executive team may decide on a broader effort to evaluate and improve the quality of the judgments and decisions that are produced in the organization.</div>
</body>
</html>
