<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0048</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_366" class="s2BR">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2ZD">Notes</a>
</div>
<div class="s2BT">I<span class="s2X9">NTRODUCTION</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The targets illustrate:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Using bows and arrows rather than guns, Swiss mathematician Daniel Bernoulli offered the same analogy in 1778 in an essay on problems of estimation. Bernoulli, “The Most Probable Choice Between Several Discrepant Observations and the Formation Therefrom of the Most Likely Induction,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Biometrika</span>
 <span class="class-1">48, no. 1–2 (June 1961): 3–18, https://doi.org/10.1093/biomet/48.1-2.3.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Child custody decisions:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Joseph J. Doyle Jr., “Child Protection and Child Outcomes: Measuring the Effects of Foster Care,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">American Economic Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">95, no. 5 (December 2007): 1583–1610.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">the same software developers:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Stein Grimstad and Magne Jørgensen, “Inconsistency of Expert Judgment-Based Estimates of Software Development Effort,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Systems and Software</span>
 <span class="class-1">80, no. 11 (2007): 1770–1777.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Asylum decisions:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Andrew I. Schoenholtz, Jaya Ramji-Nogales, and Philip G. Schrag, “Refugee Roulette: Disparities in Asylum Adjudication,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Stanford Law Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">60, no. 2 (2007).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Decisions to grant patents:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Mark A. Lemley and Bhaven Sampat, “Examiner Characteristics and Patent Office Outcomes,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Review of Economics and Statistics</span>
 <span class="class-1">94, no. 3 (2012): 817–827. See also Iain Cockburn, Samuel Kortum, and Scott Stern, “Are All Patent Examiners Equal? The Impact of Examiner Characteristics,” working paper 8980, June 2002, www.nber.org/papers/w8980; and Michael D. Frakes and Melissa F. Wasserman, “Is the Time Allocated to Review Patent Applications Inducing Examiners to Grant Invalid Patents? Evidence from Microlevel Application Data,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Review of Economics and Statistics</span>
 <span class="class-1">99, no. 3 (July 2017): 550–563.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 1</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">described his motivation:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Marvin Frankel,</span>
 <span id="page_367" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="s2WT-2">Criminal Sentences: Law Without Order,</span>
 <span class="class-1">25 Inst. for Sci. Info. Current Contents / Soc. &amp; Behavioral Scis.: This Week’s Citation Classic 14, 2A-6 (June 23, 1986), available at http://www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/classics1986/A1986C697400001.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“almost wholly unchecked”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Marvin Frankel,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Criminal Sentences: Law Without Order</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Hill and Wang, 1973), 5.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“arbitrary cruelties perpetrated daily”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Frankel,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Criminal Sentences,</span>
 <span class="class-1">103.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“government of laws, not of men”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Frankel, 5.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“idiosyncratic ukases”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Frankel, 11.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“some form of numerical or other objective grading”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Frankel, 114.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“computers as an aid”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Frankel, 115.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">a commission on sentencing:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Frankel, 119.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“absence of consensus was the norm”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Anthony Partridge and William B. Eldridge,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Second Circuit Sentence Study: A Report to the Judges of the Second Circuit August 1974</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Washington, DC: Federal Judicial Center, August 1974), 9.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“astounding”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">US Senate, “Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1983: Report of the Committee on the Judiciary, United States Senate, on S. 1762, Together with Additional and Minority Views” (Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office, 1983). Report No. 98-225.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">A heroin dealer:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Anthony Partridge and Eldridge,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Second Circuit Sentence Study</span>
<span class="class-0">, A-11.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a bank robber:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Partridge and Eldridge,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Second Circuit Sentence Study,</span>
 <span class="class-0">A-9.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">an extortion case:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Partridge and Eldridge, A-5–A-7</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a survey of forty-seven judges:</span>
 <span class="class-0">William Austin and Thomas A. Williams III, “A Survey of Judges’ Responses to Simulated Legal Cases: Research Note on Sentencing Disparity,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Criminal Law &amp; Criminology</span>
 <span class="class-0">68 (1977): 306.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">A much larger study:</span>
 <span class="class-0">John Bartolomeo et al., “Sentence Decisionmaking: The Logic of Sentence Decisions and the Extent and Sources of Sentence Disparity,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology</span>
<span id="page_368" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">72, no. 2 (1981). (See chapter 6 for a full discussion.) See also Senate Report, 44.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">If judges are hungry:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Shai Danziger, Jonathan Levav, and Liora Avnaim-Pesso, “Extraneous Factors in Judicial Decisions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America</span>
 <span class="class-0">108, no. 17 (2011): 6889-92.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">juvenile court decisions:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Ozkan Eren and Naci Mocan, “Emotional Judges and Unlucky Juveniles,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">American Economic Journal: Applied Economics</span>
 <span class="class-0">10, no. 3 (2018): 171–205.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">more severe on days that follow a loss:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Daniel L. Chen and Markus Loecher, “Mood and the Malleability of Moral Reasoning: The Impact of Irrelevant Factors on Judicial Decisions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">SSRN Electronic Journal</span>
 <span class="class-0">(September 21, 2019): 1–70, http://users.nber.org/dlchen/papers/Mood_and_the_Malleability_of_Moral_Reasoning.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">more leniency on their birthday:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Daniel L. Chen and Arnaud Philippe, “Clash of Norms: Judicial Leniency on Defendant Birthdays,” (2020) available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3203624.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">20.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">something as irrelevant as outside temperature:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Anthony Heyes and Soodeh Saberian, “Temperature and Decisions: Evidence from 207,000 Court Cases,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">American Economic Journal: Applied Economics</span>
 <span class="class-0">11, no. 2 (2018): 238–265.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">21.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“the unfettered discretion”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Senate Report, 38.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">22.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“unjustifiably wide” sentencing disparity:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Senate Report, 38.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">23.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the use of past practice:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Justice Breyer is quoted in Jeffrey Rosen, “Breyer Restraint,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">New Republic</span>
<span class="class-0">, July 11, 1994, at 19, 25.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">24.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">departures must be justified:</span>
 <span class="class-0">United States Sentencing Commission, Guidelines Manual (2018), www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/guidelines-manual/2018/GLMFull.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">25.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“reduced the net variation”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">James M. Anderson, Jeffrey R. Kling, and Kate Stith, “Measuring Interjudge Sentencing Disparity: Before and After the Federal Sentencing Guidelines,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Law and Economics</span>
 <span class="class-0">42, no. S1 (April 1999): 271–308.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">26.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the commission itself:</span>
 <span class="class-0">US Sentencing Commission,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">
<span class="class-0">The Federal Sentencing Guidelines: A Report on the Operation of the</span>
 <span id="page_369" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">Guidelines System and Short-Term Impacts on Disparity in Sentencing, Use of Incarceration, and Prosecutorial Discretion and Plea Bargaining,</span>
</span>
 <span class="class-0">vols. 1 &amp; 2 (Washington, DC: US Sentencing Commission, 1991).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">27.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">According to another study:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Anderson, Kling, and Stith, “Interjudge Sentencing Disparity.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">28.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">An independent study:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Paul J. Hofer, Kevin R. Blackwell, and R. Barry Ruback, “The Effect of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines on Inter-Judge Sentencing Disparity,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology</span>
 <span class="class-0">90 (1999): 239, 241.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">29.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“the need is not for blindness…”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Kate Stith and José Cabranes,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Fear of Judging: Sentencing Guidelines in the Federal Courts</span>
 <span class="class-0">(Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1998), 79.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">30.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the Supreme Court struck the guidelines down:</span>
 <span class="class-0">543 U.S. 220 (2005).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">31.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Seventy-five percent preferred the advisory regime:</span>
 <span class="class-0">US Sentencing Commission, “Results of Survey of United States District Judges, January 2010 through March 2010” (June 2010) (question 19, table 19), www.ussc.gov/sites/default/files/pdf/research-and-publications/research-projects-and-surveys/surveys/20100608_Judge_Survey.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">32.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“findings raise…”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Crystal Yang, “Have Interjudge Sentencing Disparities Increased in an Advisory Guidelines Regime? Evidence from Booker,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">New York University Law Review</span>
 <span class="class-0">89 (2014): 1268–1342; pp. 1278, 1334.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 2</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">To prepare for the noise audit:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Executives of the company constructed detailed descriptions of representative cases, similar to the risks and claims that employees dealt with every day. Six cases were prepared for claims adjusters in the Property and Casualty Division, and four for underwriters specializing in financial risk. The employees were given half a day off from their regular workload to evaluate two or three cases each. They were instructed to work independently and were not told that the purpose of the study was to examine the variability of their judgments. Altogether, we obtained eight-six judgments from</span>
 <span id="page_370" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">forty-eight underwriters and one hundred thirteen judgments from sixty-eight claims adjusters.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">naive realism:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Dale W. Griffin and Lee Ross, “Subjective Construal, Social Inference, and Human Misunderstanding,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Advances in Experimental Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">24 (1991): 319–359; Robert J. Robinson, Dacher Keltner, Andrew Ward, and Lee Ross, “Actual Versus Assumed Differences in Construal: ‘Naive Realism’ in Intergroup Perception and Conflict,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">68, no. 3 (1995): 404; and Lee Ross and Andrew Ward, “Naive Realism in Everyday Life: Implications for Social Conflict and Misunderstanding,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Values and Knowledge</span>
 <span class="class-1">(1997).</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">P<span class="s2X9">ART</span>
 2</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">the most common measure of variability:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The standard deviation of a set of numbers is derived from another statistical quantity, called the</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">variance.</span>
 <span class="class-1">To compute the variance, we first obtain the distribution of deviations from the mean and then take the square of each of these deviations. Variance is the mean of these squared deviations, and the standard deviation is the square root of the variance.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 4</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Judges at wine competitions:</span>
 <span class="class-1">R. T. Hodgson, “An Examination of Judge Reliability at a Major U.S. Wine Competition,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Wine Economics</span>
 <span class="class-1">3, no. 2 (2008): 105–113.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">trade-offs are resolved by evaluative judgments:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Some students of decision making define decisions as choices between options and view quantitative judgments as a special case of decision, in which there is a continuum of possible choices. In that view, judgments are a special case of decision. Our approach here is different: we view decisions that call for a choice between options as stemming from an underlying evaluative judgment about each option. That is, we regard decisions as a special case of judgment.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 5</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">invented in 1795:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The method of least squares was first published</span>
 <span id="page_371" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">by Adrien-Marie Legendre in 1805. Gauss claimed that he had first used it ten years earlier, and he later linked it to the development of a theory of error and to the normal error curve that bears his name. The priority dispute has been much discussed, and historians are inclined to believe Gauss’s claim (Stephen M. Stigler, “Gauss and the Invention of Least Squares,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Annals of Statistics</span>
 <span class="class-1">9 [1981]: 465–474; and Stephen M. Stigler,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The History of Statistics: The Measurement of Uncertainty Before 1900</span>
 <span class="class-1">[Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 1986]).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Using some simple algebra:</span>
 <span class="class-1">We have defined</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">noise</span>
 <span class="class-1">as the standard deviation of errors; therefore noise squared is the variance of errors. The definition of</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">variance</span>
 <span class="class-1">is “the mean of the squares minus the square of the mean.” Since the mean error is bias, “the square of the mean” is bias squared. Therefore: Noise</span>
<span class="s2XG-0">2</span>
 <span class="class-1">= MSE – Bias</span>
<span class="s2XG-0">2</span>
<span class="class-1">.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">intuitions in this regard:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Berkeley J. Dietvorst and Soaham Bharti, “People Reject Algorithms in Uncertain Decision Domains Because They Have Diminishing Sensitivity to Forecasting Error,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">31, no. 10 (2020): 1302–1314.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 6</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">an exceptionally detailed study:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Kevin Clancy, John Bartolomeo, David Richardson, and Charles Wellford, “Sentence Decisionmaking: The Logic of Sentence Decisions and the Extent and Sources of Sentence Disparity,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology</span>
 <span class="class-1">72, no. 2 (1981): 524–554; and INSLAW, Inc. et al., “Federal Sentencing: Towards a More Explicit Policy of Criminal Sanctions III-4,” (1981).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">asked to set a sentence:</span>
 <span class="class-1">the sentence could include any combination of prison time, supervised time, and fines. For simplicity, we focus here mostly on the main component of the sentences—the prison time—and leave aside the other two components.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">This variance is what is often… :</span>
 <span class="class-1">In a multiple-case, multiple-judge setting, the extended version of the error equation we introduced in chapter 5 includes a term that reflects this variance. Specifically, if we define a</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">grand bias</span>
 <span class="class-1">as the average</span>
 <span id="page_372" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">error over all cases, and if this error is not identical across cases, there will be a variance of case biases. The equation becomes: MSE = Grand Bias</span>
<span class="s2XG-0">2</span>
 <span class="class-1">+ Variance of Case Biases + System Noise</span>
<span class="s2XG-0">2</span>
<span class="class-1">.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The average prison term:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The numbers mentioned in this chapter are derived from the original study as follows.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5., “Sentence Decisionmaking: The Logic of Sentence Decisions and the Extent and Sources of Sentence Disparity,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology</span>
 <span class="class-1">72, no. 2 [1981], table 6). However, we are concerned here more broadly with the effect of each case, including all the features presented to the judges—such as whether the defendant had a criminal record or whether a weapon was used in the commission of the crime. By our definition, all these features are part of</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">true case variance,</span>
 <span class="class-1">not noise. Accordingly, we reintegrated interactions between features of each case in the case variance (these account for 11% of total variance; see Bartolomeo et al., table 10). As a result, we redefine the shares of case variance as 56%, judge main effect (level noise) as 21%, and interactions in total variance as 23%. System noise is therefore 44% of total variance.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6., 89, in the table listing mean sentences for each case: the variance is 15. If this is 56 % of total variance, then total variance is 26.79 and the variance of system noise is 11.79. The square root of that variance is the standard deviation for a representative case, or 3.4 years.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7. The square root of that variance is the standard deviation that is attributable to judge level noise, or 2.4 years.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">3.4 years:</span>
 <span class="class-1">This value is the square root of the average of the variances of sentences for the sixteen cases. We calculated it as explained in the preceding note.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">simple, additive logic:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The additivity hypothesis effectively assumes that the harshness of a judge adds a constant amount of prison time. This hypothesis is unlikely to be correct: the harshness of the judge is more likely to add an amount that is proportional to the average sentence. This issue was ignored in the original report, which provides no way of assessing its importance.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“Patterned differences between judges”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Bartolomeo et al., “Sentence Decisionmaking,” 23.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">approximately equally:</span>
<span id="page_373" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">The following equation holds: (System Noise)</span>
<span class="s2XG-1">2</span>
 <span class="class-0">= (Level Noise)</span>
<span class="s2XG-1">2</span>
 <span class="class-0">+ (Pattern Noise)</span>
<span class="s2XG-1">2</span>
<span class="class-0">. The table shows that system noise is 3.4 years and level noise is 2.4 years. It follows that pattern noise is also about 2.4 years. The calculation is shown as an illustration—the actual values are slightly different because of rounding errors.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 7</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The all-time best:</span>
 <span class="class-1">See http://www.iweblists.com/sports/basketball/FreeThrowPercent_c.html, consulted Dec. 27, 2020.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Shaquille O’Neal:</span>
 <span class="class-1">See https://www.basketball-reference.com/players/o/onealsh01.html, consulted Dec. 27, 2020.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">wine experts:</span>
 <span class="class-1">R. T. Hodgson, “An Examination of Judge Reliability at a Major U.S. Wine Competition,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Wine Economics</span>
 <span class="class-1">3, no. 2 (2008): 105–113.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">software consultants:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Stein Grimstad and Magne Jørgensen, “Inconsistency of Expert Judgment-Based Estimates of Software Development Effort,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Systems and Software</span>
 <span class="class-1">80, no. 11 (2007): 1770–1777.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">agree with themselves:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Robert H. Ashton, “A Review and Analysis of Research on the Test–Retest Reliability of Professional Judgment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Behavioral Decision Making</span>
 <span class="class-1">294, no. 3 (2000): 277–294. Incidentally, the author then noted that not a single one of the forty-one studies he reviewed was designed to evaluate occasion noise: “In all cases, the measurement of reliability was a by-product of some other research objectives” (Ashton, 279). This comment suggests that the interest in studying occasion noise is relatively recent.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">correct answer:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Central Intelligence Agency,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The World Factbook</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Washington, DC: Central Intelligence Agency, 2020). The figure cited includes all airports or airfields recognizable from the air. The runway or runways may be paved or unpaved and may include closed or abandoned installations.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Edward Vul and Harold Pashler:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Edward Vul and Harold Pashler, “Crowd Within: Probabilistic Representations Within Individuals,”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">closer to the truth:</span>
 <span class="class-1">James Surowiecki,</span>
 <span id="page_374" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="s2WT-2">The Wisdom of Crowds: Why the Many Are Smarter Than the Few and How Collective Wisdom Shapes Business, Economies, Societies, and Nations</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Doubleday, 2004).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">less noisy:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The standard deviation of the averaged judgments (our measure of noise) decreases in proportion to the square root of the number of judgments.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“You can gain”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Vul and Pashler, “Crowd Within,” 646.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Stefan Herzog and Ralph Hertwig:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Stefan M. Herzog and Ralph Hertwig, “Think Twice and Then: Combining or Choosing in Dialectical Bootstrapping?,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-0">40, no. 1 (2014): 218–232.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“Responses made”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Vul and Pashler, “Measuring the Crowd Within,” 647.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Joseph Forgas:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Joseph P. Forgas, “Affective Influences on Interpersonal Behavior,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychological Inquiry</span>
 <span class="class-0">13, no. 1 (2002): 1–28.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“The same smile…”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Forgas, “Affective Influences,” 10.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">negotiators who shift:</span>
 <span class="class-0">A. Filipowicz, S. Barsade, and S. Melwani, “Understanding Emotional Transitions: The Interpersonal Consequences of Changing Emotions in Negotiations,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">101, no. 3 (2011): 541–556.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">participants read a short philosophical essay:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Joseph P. Forgas, “She Just Doesn’t Look like a Philosopher…? Affective Influences on the Halo Effect in Impression Formation,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">European Journal of Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">41, no. 7 (2011): 812–817.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">pseudo-profound statements:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Gordon Pennycook, James Allan Cheyne, Nathaniel Barr, Derek J. Koehler, and Jonathan A. Fugelsang, “On the Reception and Detection of Pseudo-Profound Bullshit,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Judgment and Decision Making</span>
 <span class="class-0">10, no. 6 (2015): 549–563.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18. On Bullshit: Harry Frankfurt,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">On Bullshit</span>
 <span class="class-0">(Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2005).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“seemingly impressive assertions”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Pennycook et al., “Pseudo-Profound Bullshit,” 549.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">20.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">more gullible:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Joseph P. Forgas, “Happy Believers and Sad Skeptics? Affective Influences on Gullibility,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Current Directions in Psychological Science</span>
<span id="page_375" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">28, no. 3 (2019): 306–313.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">21.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">eyewitnesses:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Joseph P. Forgas, “Mood Effects on Eyewitness Memory: Affective Influences on Susceptibility to Misinformation,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Experimental Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">41, no. 6 (2005): 574–588.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">22.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">footbridge problem:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Piercarlo Valdesolo and David Desteno, “Manipulations of Emotional Context Shape Moral Judgment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">17, no. 6 (2006): 476–477.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">23.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">opioids at the end of a long day:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Hannah T. Neprash and Michael L. Barnett, “Association of Primary Care Clinic Appointment Time with Opioid Prescribing,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">JAMA Network Open</span>
 <span class="class-0">2, no. 8 (2019); Lindsey M. Philpot, Bushra A. Khokhar, Daniel L. Roellinger, Priya Ramar, and Jon O. Ebbert, “Time of Day Is Associated with Opioid Prescribing for Low Back Pain in Primary Care,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of General Internal Medicine</span>
 <span class="class-0">33 (2018): 1828.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">24.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">antibiotics:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Jeffrey A. Linder, Jason N. Doctor, Mark W. Friedberg, Harry Reyes Nieva, Caroline Birks, Daniella Meeker, and Craig R. Fox, “Time of Day and the Decision to Prescribe Antibiotics,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">JAMA Internal Medicine</span>
 <span class="class-0">174, no. 12 (2014): 2029–2031.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">25.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">flu shots:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Rebecca H. Kim, Susan C. Day, Dylan S. Small, Christopher K. Snider, Charles A. L. Rareshide, and Mitesh S. Patel, “Variations in Influenza Vaccination by Clinic Appointment Time and an Active Choice Intervention in the Electronic Health Record to Increase Influenza Vaccination,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">JAMA Network Open</span>
 <span class="class-0">1, no. 5 (2018): 1–10.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">26.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Bad weather:</span>
 <span class="class-0">For comment on improved memory, see Joseph P. Forgas, Liz Goldenberg, and Christian Unkelbach, “Can Bad Weather Improve Your Memory? An Unobtrusive Field Study of Natural Mood Effects on Real-Life Memory,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Experimental Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">45, no. 1 (2008): 254–257. For comment on sunshine, see David Hirshleifer and Tyler Shumway, “Good Day Sunshine: Stock Returns and the Weather,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Finance</span>
 <span class="class-0">58, no. 3 (2003): 1009–1032.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">27.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“Clouds Make Nerds Look Good”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Uri Simonsohn, “Clouds Make Nerds Look Good: Field Evidence of the Impact of Incidental Factors on Decision Making,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Behavioral Decision Making</span>
 <span class="class-0">20, no. 2 (2007): 143–152.</span>
</div>
<div id="page_376" class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">28. gambler’s fallacy: Daniel Chen et al., “Decision Making Under the Gambler’s Fallacy: Evidence from Asylum Judges, Loan Officers, and Baseball Umpires,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Quarterly Journal of Economics</span>
 <span class="class-0">131, no. 3 (2016): 1181–1242.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">29.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">grant asylum:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Jaya Ramji-Nogales, Andrew I. Schoenholtz, and Philip Schrag, “Refugee Roulette: Disparities in Asylum Adjudication,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Stanford Law Review</span>
 <span class="class-0">60, no. 2 (2007).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">30.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">memory performance:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Michael J. Kahana et al., “The Variability Puzzle in Human Memory,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-0">44, no. 12 (2018): 1857–1863.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 8</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">study of music downloads:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Matthew J. Salganik, Peter Sheridan Dodds, and Duncan J. Watts, “Experimental Study of Inequality and Unpredictability in an Artificial Cultural Market,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">311 (2006): 854–856. See also Matthew Salganik and Duncan Watts, “Leading the Herd Astray: An Experimental Study of Self-Fulfilling Prophecies in an Artificial Cultural Market,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Social Psychology Quarterly</span>
 <span class="class-1">71 (2008): 338–355; and Matthew Salganik and Duncan Watts, “Web-Based Experiments for the Study of Collective Social Dynamics in Cultural Markets,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Topics in Cognitive Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">1 (2009): 439–468.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">popularity is self-reinforcing:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Salganik and Watts, “Leading the Herd Astray.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">in many other areas:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Michael Macy et al., “Opinion Cascades and the Unpredictability of Partisan Polarization,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Science Advances</span>
 <span class="class-1">(2019): 1–8. See also Helen Margetts et al.,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Political Turbulence</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2015).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">sociologist Michael Macy:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Michael Macy et al., “Opinion Cascades.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">comments on websites:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Lev Muchnik et al., “Social Influence Bias: A Randomized Experiment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">341, no. 6146 (2013): 647–651.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Research has revealed:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jan Lorenz et al., “How Social Influence Can Undermine the Wisdom of Crowd Effect,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</span>
 <span class="class-1">108, no. 22 (2011): 9020–9025.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">an experiment that compares:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Daniel Kahneman, David Schkade, and Cass Sunstein, “Shared Outrage and Erratic Awards: The Psychology of Punitive Damages,”</span>
 <span id="page_377" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Risk and Uncertainty</span>
 <span class="class-1">16 (1998): 49–86.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">five hundred mock juries:</span>
 <span class="class-1">David Schkade, Cass R. Sunstein, and Daniel Kahneman, “Deliberating about Dollars: The Severity Shift,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Columbia Law Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">100 (2000): 1139–1175.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">percent concordant:</span>
 <span class="class-1">percent concordant (PC) is closely related to Kendall’s</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">W,</span>
 <span class="class-1">also known as the coefficient of concordance.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">height and foot size:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Kanwal Kamboj et al., “A Study on the Correlation Between Foot Length and Height of an Individual and to Derive Regression Formulae to Estimate the Height from Foot Length of an Individual,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">International Journal of Research in Medical Sciences</span>
 <span class="class-0">6, no. 2 (2018): 528.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Table 1 presents the PC:</span>
 <span class="class-0">PC is calculated on the assumption that the joint distribution is bivariate-normal. The values shown in the table are approximations based on that assumption. We thank Julian Parris for producing this table.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 9</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">actual study of performance prediction:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Martin C. Yu and Nathan R. Kuncel, “Pushing the Limits for Judgmental Consistency: Comparing Random Weighting Schemes with Expert Judgments,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Personnel Assessment and Decisions</span>
 <span class="class-1">6, no. 2 (2020): 1–10. The .15 correlation achieved by experts is the unweighted average of the three samples studied, including 847 cases in total. The real study differs from this simplified description in several respects.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">a weighted average:</span>
 <span class="class-1">A prerequisite for constructing a weighted average is that all predictors must be measured in comparable units. This requirement was satisfied in our introductory example, where all ratings were made on a 0-to-10 scale, but this is not always the case. For example, the predictors of performance might be an interviewer’s assessment on a 0-to-10 scale, the number of years of relevant experience, and a score on a test of proficiency. The multiple regression program transforms all predictors into</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">standard scores</span>
 <span class="class-1">before combining them. A standard score measures the distance of an observation from the mean of a population, with the standard deviation as a unit. For example, if the mean of the proficiency test is 55 and the</span>
 <span id="page_378" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">standard deviation is 8, a standard score of +1.5 corresponds to a test result of 67. Notably, standardization of each individual’s data eliminates any trace of error in the mean or in the variance of individuals’ judgments.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">gets a large weight:</span>
 <span class="class-1">An important feature of multiple regression is that the optimal weight for each predictor depends on the other predictors. If a predictor is highly correlated with another one, it should not get an equally large weight—this would be a form of “double counting.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4. “</span>
<span class="s2WT-2">the workhorse…”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Robin M. Hogarth and Natalia Karelaia, “Heuristic and Linear Models of Judgment: Matching Rules and Environments,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">114, no. 3 (2007): 734.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">a simple structure:</span>
 <span class="class-1">A research framework that has been extensively used in this context is the</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">lens model of judgment,</span>
 <span class="class-1">on which this discussion is based. See Kenneth R. Hammond, “Probabilistic Functioning and the Clinical Method,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">62, no. 4 (1955): 255–262; Natalia Karelaia and Robin M. Hogarth, “Determinants of Linear Judgment: A Meta-Analysis of Lens Model Studies,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Bulletin</span>
 <span class="class-1">134, no. 3 (2008): 404–426.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6. Paul E. Meehl,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Clinical Versus Statistical Prediction: A Theoretical Analysis and a Review of the Evidence</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1954).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A picture of Freud:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Paul E. Meehl,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Clinical Versus Statistical Prediction: A Theoretical Analysis and a Review of the Evidence</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Northvale, NJ: Aronson, 1996), preface.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">a polymath:</span>
 <span class="class-1">“Paul E. Meehl,” in Ed Lindzey (ed.),</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A History of Psychology in Autobiography,</span>
 <span class="class-1">1989.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“massive and consistent”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">“Paul E. Meehl,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A History of Psychology in Autobiography,</span>
 <span class="class-1">ed. Ed Lindzey (Washington, DC: American Psychological Association, 1989), 362.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">A 2000 review:</span>
 <span class="class-0">William M. Grove et al., “Clinical Versus Mechanical Prediction: A Meta-Analysis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychological Assessment</span>
 <span class="class-0">12, no. 1 (2000): 19–30.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">access to “private” information:</span>
 <span class="class-0">William M. Grove and Paul E. Meehl, “Comparative Efficiency of Informal (Subjective, Impressionistic) and Formal (Mechanical, Algorithmic) Prediction Procedures: The Clinical-Statistical Controversy,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychology, Public Policy, and Law</span>
<span id="page_379" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">2, no. 2 (1996): 293–323.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">In the late 1960s:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Lewis Goldberg, “Man Versus Model of Man: A Rationale, plus Some Evidence, for a Method of Improving on Clinical Inferences,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychological Bulletin</span>
 <span class="class-0">73, no. 6 (1970): 422–432.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">nothing of the kind:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Milton Friedman and Leonard J. Savage, “The Utility Analysis of Choices Involving Risk,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Political Economy</span>
 <span class="class-0">56, no. 4 (1948): 279–304.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">this correlation:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Karelaia and Hogarth, “Determinants of Linear Judgment,” 411, table 1.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">An early replication:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Nancy Wiggins and Eileen S. Kohen, “Man Versus Model of Man Revisited: The Forecasting of Graduate School Success,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">19, no. 1 (1971): 100–106.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a review of fifty years:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Karelaia and Hogarth, “Determinants of Linear Judgment.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">improvement of your predictive accuracy:</span>
 <span class="class-0">The correction of a correlation coefficient for the imperfect reliability of the predictor is known as</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">correction for attenuation.</span>
 <span class="class-0">The formula is Corrected</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">r</span>
<span class="s2YK">xy</span>
 <span class="class-0">=</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">r</span>
<span class="s2YK">xy</span>
<span class="class-0">/√</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">r</span>
<span class="s2YK">xx</span>
<span class="class-0">, where</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">r</span>
<span class="s2YK">xx</span>
 <span class="class-0">is the reliability coefficient (the proportion of true variance in the observed variance of the predictor).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">A study by Martin Yu and Nathan Kuncel:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Yu and Kuncel, “Judgmental Consistency.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">random formulas:</span>
 <span class="class-0">We discuss equal-weight and random-weight models in greater detail in the next chapter. The weights are constrained to a range of small numbers, and they are constrained to have the right sign.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 10</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">far superior to clinical judgments:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Robyn M. Dawes and Bernard Corrigan, “Linear Models in Decision Making,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Bulletin</span>
 <span class="class-1">81, no. 2 (1974): 95–106. Dawes and Corrigan also proposed using random weights. The study of managerial performance prediction, described in chapter 9, is an application of this idea.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“contrary to statistical intuition”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jason Dana, “What Makes Improper Linear Models Tick?,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Rationality and Social Responsibility: Essays in Honor of Robyn M. Dawes,</span>
<span id="page_380" class="class-1"></span>
 <span class="class-1">ed. Joachim I. Krueger, 71–89 (New York: Psychology Press, 2008), 73.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Similar results:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jason Dana and Robyn M. Dawes, “The Superiority of Simple Alternatives to Regression for Social Sciences Prediction,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Educational and Behavior Statistics</span>
 <span class="class-1">29 (2004): 317–331; Dana, “What Makes Improper Linear Models Tick?”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“It Don’t Make”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Howard Wainer, “Estimating Coefficients in Linear Models: It Don’t Make No Nevermind,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Bulletin</span>
 <span class="class-1">83, no. 2 (1976): 213–217.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“we do not need”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Dana, “What Makes Improper Linear Models Tick?,” 72.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">correlation with the outcome:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Martin C. Yu and Nathan R. Kuncel, “Pushing the Limits for Judgmental Consistency: Comparing Random Weighting Schemes with Expert Judgments,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Personnel Assessment and Decisions</span>
 <span class="class-1">6, no. 2 (2020): 1–10. As in the previous chapter, the reported correlation is the unweighted average of the three samples studied. The comparison holds in each of the three samples: the validity of clinical expert judgment was .17, .16, and .13, and the validity of equal-weight models was .19, .33, and .22, respectively.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“robust beauty”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Robyn M. Dawes, “The Robust Beauty of Improper Linear Models in Decision Making,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">American Psychologist</span>
 <span class="class-1">34, no. 7 (1979): 571–582.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“The whole trick”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Dawes and Corrigan, “Linear Models in Decision Making,” 105.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A team of researchers:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jongbin Jung, Conner Concannon, Ravi Shroff, Sharad Goel, and Daniel G. Goldstein, “Simple Rules to Guide Expert Classifications,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of the Royal Statistical Society, Statistics in Society,</span>
 <span class="class-1">no. 183 (2020): 771–800.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a separate team:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Julia Dressel and Hany Farid, “The Accuracy, Fairness, and Limits of Predicting Recidivism,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Science Advances</span>
 <span class="class-0">4, no. 1 (2018): 1–6.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">only two inputs:</span>
 <span class="class-0">these two examples are linear models based on an extremely small set of variables (and, in the case of the bail model, on an approximation of the linear weights obtained by a rounding method that transforms the model into a back-of-the-envelope calculation). Another type of “improper model” is a</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">single-variable rule,</span>
<span id="page_381" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">which considers only one predictor and ignores all others.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">See</span>
 <span class="class-0">Peter M. Todd and Gerd Gigerenzer, “Précis of Simple Heuristics That Make Us Smart,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Behavioral and Brain Sciences</span>
 <span class="class-0">23, no. 5 (2000): 727–741.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">well documented:</span>
 <span class="class-0">P. Gendreau, T. Little, and C. Goggin, “A Meta-Analysis of the Predictors of Adult Offender Recidivism: What Works!,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Criminology</span>
 <span class="class-0">34 (1996).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Very large data sets</span>
<span class="class-0">: Size in this context should be understood as the ratio of the number of observations to predictors. Dawes, “Robust Beauty,” suggested that it must be as high as 15 or 20 to 1 before the optimal weights do better on cross-validation than do unit weights. Dana and Dawes, “Superiority of Simple Alternatives,” using many more case studies, raised the bar to a ratio of 100 to 1.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">another team:</span>
 <span class="class-0">J. Kleinberg, H. Lakkaraju, J. Leskovec, J. Ludwig, and S. Mullainathan, “Human Decisions and Machine Predictions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Quarterly Journal of Economics</span>
 <span class="class-0">133 (2018): 237–293.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">trained a machine-learning algorithm:</span>
 <span class="class-0">The algorithm was trained on a subset of training data and then evaluated on its ability to predict outcomes on a different, randomly chosen subset.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“The machine-learning algorithm finds”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Kleinberg et al., “Human Decisions,” 16.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">System noise included:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Gregory Stoddard, Jens Ludwig, and Sendhil Mullainathan, e-mail exchanges with the authors, June–July 2020.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the recruitment of software engineers:</span>
 <span class="class-0">B. Cowgill, “Bias and Productivity in Humans and Algorithms: Theory and Evidence from Résumé Screening,” paper presented at Smith Entrepreneurship Research Conference, College Park, MD, April 21, 2018.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a 1996 article:</span>
 <span class="class-0">William M. Grove and Paul E. Meehl, “Comparative Efficiency of Informal (Subjective, Impressionistic) and Formal (Mechanical, Algorithmic) Prediction Procedures: The Clinical-Statistical Controversy,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychology, Public Policy, and Law</span>
 <span class="class-0">2, no. 2 (1996): 293–323.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">20.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">prefer the algorithm:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Jennifer M. Logg, Julia A. Minson, and Don</span>
 <span id="page_382" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">A. Moore, “Algorithm Appreciation: People Prefer Algorithmic to Human Judgment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes</span>
 <span class="class-0">151 (April 2018): 90–103.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">21.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">as soon as they see that it makes mistakes:</span>
 <span class="class-0">B. J. Dietvorst, J. P. Simmons, and C. Massey, “Algorithm Aversion: People Erroneously Avoid Algorithms After Seeing Them Err,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Experimental Psychology General</span>
 <span class="class-0">144 (2015): 114–126. See also A. Prahl and L. Van Swol, “Understanding Algorithm Aversion: When Is Advice from Automation Discounted?,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Forecasting</span>
 <span class="class-0">36 (2017): 691–702.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">22.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">If this expectation is violated:</span>
 <span class="class-0">M. T. Dzindolet, L. G. Pierce, H. P. Beck, and L. A. Dawe, “The Perceived Utility of Human and Automated Aids in a Visual Detection Task,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Human Factors: The Journal of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society</span>
 <span class="class-0">44, no. 1 (2002): 79–94; K. A. Hoff and M. Bashir, “Trust in Automation: Integrating Empirical Evidence on Factors That Influence Trust,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Human Factors: The Journal of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society</span>
 <span class="class-0">57, no. 3 (2015): 407–434; and P. Madhavan and D. A. Wiegmann, “Similarities and Differences Between Human–Human and Human–Automation Trust: An Integrative Review,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Theoretical Issues in Ergonomics Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">8, no. 4 (2007): 277–301.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 11</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Research in managerial decision making:</span>
 <span class="class-1">E. Dane and M. G. Pratt, “Exploring Intuition and Its Role in Managerial Decision Making,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Academy of Management Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">32, no. 1 (2007): 33–54; Cinla Akinci and Eugene Sadler-Smith, “Intuition in Management Research: A Historical Review,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">International Journal of Management Reviews</span>
 <span class="class-1">14 (2012): 104–122; and Gerard P. Hodgkinson et al., “Intuition in Organizations: Implications for Strategic Management,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Long Range Planning</span>
 <span class="class-1">42 (2009): 277–297.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">One review:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Hodgkinson et al., “Intuition in Organizations,” 279.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">a recent review:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Nathan Kuncel et al., “Mechanical Versus Clinical Data Combination in Selection and Admissions Decisions: A Meta-Analysis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">98, no. 6 (2013): 1060–1072. See also chapter 24 for further discussion of</span>
 <span id="page_383" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">personnel decisions.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Overconfidence:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Don A. Moore,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Perfectly Confident: How to Calibrate Your Decisions Wisely</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: HarperCollins, 2020).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“commenting or offering advice”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Philip E. Tetlock,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Expert Political Judgment: How Good Is It? How Can We Know?</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2005), 239 and 233.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">a review of 136 studies:</span>
 <span class="class-1">William M. Grove et al., “Clinical Versus Mechanical Prediction: A Meta-Analysis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Assessment</span>
 <span class="class-1">12, no. 1 (2000): 19–30.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">heart attacks:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Sendhil Mullainathan and Ziad Obermeyer, “Who Is Tested for Heart Attack and Who Should Be: Predicting Patient Risk and Physician Error,” 2019. NBER Working Paper 26168, National Bureau of Economic Research.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">in situations that they perceive as highly uncertain:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Weston Agor, “The Logic of Intuition: How Top Executives Make Important Decisions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Organizational Dynamics</span>
 <span class="class-1">14, no. 3 (1986): 5–18; Lisa A. Burke and Monica K. Miller, “Taking the Mystery Out of Intuitive Decision Making,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Academy of Management Perspectives</span>
 <span class="class-1">13, no. 4 (1999): 91–99.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">prepared to trust an algorithm:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Poornima Madhavan and Douglas A. Wiegmann, “Effects of Information Source, Pedigree, and Reliability on Operator Interaction with Decision Support Systems,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Human Factors: The Journal of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society</span>
 <span class="class-1">49, no. 5 (2007).</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 12</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">an unusual article:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Matthew J. Salganik et al., “Measuring the Predictability of Life Outcomes with a Scientific Mass Collaboration,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</span>
 <span class="class-1">117, no. 15 (2020): 8398–8403.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">total sample:</span>
 <span class="class-1">this included 4,242 families, as some of the families in the Fragile Families study were excluded from this analysis for privacy reasons.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">correlation of .22:</span>
 <span class="class-1">To score accuracy, the competition’s organizers used the same metric we introduced in part 1: mean squared error, or MSE. For ease of comparability, they also benchmarked the MSE of each model against a “useless”</span>
 <span id="page_384" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">prediction strategy: a one-size-fits-all prediction that each individual case is not different from the mean of the training set. For convenience, we have converted their results to correlation coefficients. MSE and correlation are related by the expression</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">r</span>
<span class="s2XG-0">2</span>
 <span class="class-1">= (Var (Y) − MSE) / Var (Y), where Var (Y) is the variance of the outcome variable and (Var (Y) − MSE) is the variance of the predicted outcomes.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">An extensive review of research in social psychology:</span>
 <span class="class-1">F. D. Richard et al., “One Hundred Years of Social Psychology Quantitatively Described,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Review of General Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">7, no. 4 (2003): 331–363.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A review of 708 studies:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Gilles E. Gignac and Eva T. Szodorai, “Effect Size Guidelines for Individual Differences Researchers,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Personality and Individual Differences</span>
 <span class="class-1">102 (2016): 74–78.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“Researchers must reconcile”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">One caveat is in order. By design, this study uses an existing descriptive data set, which is very large, but not specifically tailored to predict specific outcomes. This is an important difference with the experts in Tetlock’s study, who were free to use any information they saw fit. It may be possible, for instance, to identify predictors of eviction that are not in the database but that could conceivably be collected. Hence, the study does not prove how</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">intrinsically</span>
 <span class="class-1">unpredictable evictions and other outcomes are but how unpredictable they are</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">based on this data set,</span>
 <span class="class-1">which is used by numerous social scientists.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">a causal chain:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jake M. Hofman et al., “Prediction and Explanation in Social Systems,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">355 (2017): 486–488; Duncan J. Watts et al., “Explanation, Prediction, and Causality: Three Sides of the Same Coin?,” October 2018, 1–14, available through Center for Open Science, https://osf.io/bgwjc.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">comes more naturally to our minds:</span>
 <span class="class-1">A closely related distinction contrasts</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">extensional</span>
 <span class="class-1">from</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">non-extensional,</span>
 <span class="class-1">or</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">intentional,</span>
 <span class="class-1">thinking. Amos Tversky and Daniel Kahneman, “Extensional Versus Intuitive Reasoning: The Conjunction Fallacy in Probability Judgment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">4 (1983): 293–315.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">backward-looking:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Daniel Kahneman and Dale T. Miller, “Norm Theory: Comparing Reality to Its Alternatives,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Review</span>
<span id="page_385" class="class-1"></span>
 <span class="class-1">93, no. 2 (1986): 136–153.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">classic research on hindsight:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Baruch Fischhoff, “An Early History of Hindsight Research,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Social Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-0">25, no. 1 (2007): 10–13, doi:10.1521/soco.2007.25.1.10; Baruch Fischhoff, “Hindsight Is Not Equal to Foresight: The Effect of Outcome Knowledge on Judgment Under Uncertainty,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance</span>
 <span class="class-0">1, no. 3 (1975): 288.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">System 2:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Daniel Kahneman,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Thinking, Fast and Slow.</span>
 <span class="class-0">New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 13</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The first four decades:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Daniel Kahneman,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Thinking, Fast and Slow</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">the evidence suggests:</span>
 <span class="class-1">A caveat is in order. Psychologists who study judgment biases are not content with five participants in each group, as shown in Figure 10, for a very good reason: because judgments are noisy, the results for each experimental group will rarely cluster as closely as Figure 11 suggests. People vary in their susceptibility to each bias and do not</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">completely</span>
 <span class="class-1">neglect relevant variables. For example, with a very large number of participants, you could almost certainly confirm that scope insensitivity is imperfect: the average probability assigned to Gambardi’s leaving the position is very slightly higher for three years than it is for two. Still, the description of scope insensitivity is appropriate because the difference is a tiny fraction of what it should be.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">multiple experiments:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Daniel Kahneman et al., eds.,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Judgment Under Uncertainty: Heuristics and Biases</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Cambridge University Press, 1982), chap. 6; Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, “On the Psychology of Prediction,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">80, no. 4 (1973): 237–251.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">estimates of CEO turnover:</span>
 <span class="class-1">See, for example, Steven N. Kaplan and Bernadette A. Minton, “How Has CEO Turnover Changed?,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">International Review of Finance</span>
 <span class="class-1">12, no. 1 (2012): 57–87. See also Dirk Jenter and Katharina Lewellen, “Performance-Induced CEO Turnover,” Harvard Law School Forum on Corporate Governance, September 2, 2020,</span>
 <span id="page_386" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">https://corpgov.law.harvard.edu/2020/09/02/performance-induced-ceo-turnover.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">At a key moment:</span>
 <span class="class-1">J. W. Rinzler,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Making of Star Wars: Return of the Jedi: The Definitive Story</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Del Rey, 2013), 64.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">development of the screenplay:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Cass Sunstein,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The World According to Star Wars</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: HarperCollins, 2016).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">selective and distorted:</span>
 <span class="class-1">We are highlighting here the simple case in which a prejudgment exists when the judgment begins. In fact, even in the absence of such a prejudgment, a bias toward a particular conclusion can develop as evidence accumulates, because of the tendency toward simplicity and coherence. As a tentative conclusion emerges, the confirmation bias tilts the collection and interpretation of new evidence in its favor.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">even when the reasoning:</span>
 <span class="class-1">This observation has been called the</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">belief bias.</span>
 <span class="class-1">See J. St. B. T. Evans, Julie L. Barson, and Paul Pollard, “On the Conflict between Logic and Belief in Syllogistic Reasoning,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Memory &amp; Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-1">11, no. 3 (1983): 295–306.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">In a typical demonstration:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Dan Ariely, George Loewenstein, and Drazen Prelec, “‘Coherent Arbitrariness’: Stable Demand Curves Without Stable Preferences,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Quarterly Journal of Economics</span>
 <span class="class-1">118, no. 1 (2003): 73–105.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">in negotiations:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Adam D. Galinsky and T. Mussweiler, “First Offers as Anchors: The Role of Perspective-Taking and Negotiator Focus,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">81, no. 4 (2001): 657–669.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">excessive coherence:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Solomon E. Asch, “Forming Impressions of Personality,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">41, no. 3 (1946): 258–290, first used a series of adjectives in different orders to illustrate this phenomenon.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">in a revealing study:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Steven K. Dallas et al., “Don’t Count Calorie Labeling Out: Calorie Counts on the Left Side of Menu Items Lead to Lower Calorie Food Choices,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Consumer Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">29, no. 1 (2019): 60–69.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 14</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">one intensity scale onto another:</span>
 <span class="class-1">S. S. Stevens, “On the Operation Known as Judgment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">American Scientist</span>
 <span class="class-1">54, no. 4 (December 1966): 385–401. Our use of the term</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">matching</span>
 <span class="class-1">is more expansive</span>
 <span id="page_387" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">than Stevens’s which was restricted to ratio scales, to which we return in chapter 15.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">systematic judgment error:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The example was first introduced in Daniel Kahneman,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Thinking, Fast and Slow</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2011).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">exactly the same numbers:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky, “On the Psychology of Prediction,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">80 (1973): 237–251.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“The Magical Number Seven”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">G. A. Miller, “The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two: Some Limits on Our Capacity for Processing Information,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">(1956): 63–97.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">scales that compel comparisons:</span>
 <span class="class-1">R. D. Goffin and J. M. Olson, “Is It All Relative? Comparative Judgments and the Possible Improvement of Self-Ratings and Ratings of Others,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Perspectives on Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">6 (2011): 48–60.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 15</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">reported in 1998:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Daniel Kahneman, David Schkade, and Cass Sunstein, “Shared Outrage and Erratic Awards: The Psychology of Punitive Damages,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Risk and Uncertainty</span>
 <span class="class-1">16 (1998): 49–86, https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1007710408413; and Cass Sunstein, Daniel Kahneman, and David Schkade, “Assessing Punitive Damages (with Notes on Cognition and Valuation in Law),”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Yale Law Journal</span>
 <span class="class-1">107, no. 7 (May 1998): 2071–2153. The costs of the research were covered by Exxon in a one-off arrangement, but the company did not pay the researchers and had neither control of the data nor advance knowledge of the results before publication in academic journals.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2. “</span>
<span class="s2WT-2">reasonable doubt”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">A. Keane and P. McKeown,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Modern Law of Evidence</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Oxford University Press, 2014).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“unlikely to happen”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Andrew Mauboussin and Michael J. Mauboussin, “If You Say Something Is ‘Likely,’ How Likely Do People Think It Is?,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Harvard Business Review,</span>
 <span class="class-1">July 3, 2018.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">new BMW: BMW v. Gore</span>
<span class="class-1">, 517 U.S. 559 (1996), https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/517/559.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">the emotion of outrage:</span>
 <span class="class-1">For discussions of the role of emotion in moral judgments, see J. Haidt, “The Emotional Dog and Its Rational Tail: A Social</span>
 <span id="page_388" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">Intuitionist Approach to Moral Judgment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">108, no. 4 (2001): 814–834; Joshua Greene,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Moral Tribes: Emotion, Reason, and the Gap Between Us and Them</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Penguin Press, 2014).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Figure 13 shows the results:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Given the large amount of noise in these ratings, you may be puzzled by the very high correlation (.98) between outrage and punitive intent judgments, which provided the support for the outrage hypothesis. The puzzle vanishes when you recall that the correlation was computed between</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">averages</span>
 <span class="class-1">of judgments. For an average of 100 judgments, noise (the standard deviation of judgments) is reduced by a factor of 10. Noise ceases to be a factor when many judgments are aggregated. See chapter 21.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7. ratios</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">of intensity:</span>
 <span class="class-1">S. S. Stevens,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychophysics: Introduction to Its Perceptual, Neural and Social Prospects</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: John Wiley &amp; Sons, 1975).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“coherent arbitrariness”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Dan Ariely, George Loewenstein, and Drazen Prelec, “‘Coherent Arbitrariness’: Stable Demand Curves Without Stable Preferences,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Quarterly Journal of Economics</span>
 <span class="class-1">118, no. 1 (2003): 73–106.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Transforming the dollar awards into rankings:</span>
 <span class="class-1">A transformation into rankings entails a loss of information, as the distances between judgments are not preserved. Suppose that there are only three cases and one juror recommends damages of $10 million, $2 million, and $1 million. Clearly, the juror intends to convey a greater difference in punitive intent between the first two cases than between the second and the third. Once converted to ranks, however, the difference will be the same—a difference of one rank only. This problem could be solved by converting the judgments into standard scores.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 16</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">process in perception:</span>
 <span class="class-1">R. Blake and N. K. Logothetis, “Visual competition,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Nature Reviews Neuroscience</span>
 <span class="class-1">3 (2002) 13–21; M. A. Gernsbacher and M. E. Faust, “The Mechanism of Suppression: A Component of General Comprehension Skill,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-1">17 (March 1991): 245–262; and M. C. Stites and K. D. Federmeier,</span>
 <span id="page_389" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">“Subsequent to Suppression: Downstream Comprehension Consequences of Noun/Verb Ambiguity in Natural Reading,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-1">41 (September 2015): 1497–1515.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">more confident than we should be:</span>
 <span class="class-1">D. A. Moore and D. Schatz, “The three faces of overconfidence,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Social and Personality Psychology Compass</span>
 <span class="class-1">11, no. 8 (2017), article e12331.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A study of corporate reputation:</span>
 <span class="class-1">S. Highhouse, A. Broadfoot, J. E. Yugo, and S. A. Devendorf, “Examining Corporate Reputation Judgments with Generalizability Theory,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">94 (2009): 782–789. We thank Scott Highhouse and Alison Broadfoot for providing their original data, and Julian Parris for some supplemental analyses.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">construct teams:</span>
 <span class="class-1">P. J. Lamberson and Scott Page, “Optimal forecasting groups,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Management Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">58, no. 4 (2012): 805–10. We thank Scott Page for drawing our attention to this source of pattern noise.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">an early attempt to scan:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The work of Allport and Odbert (1936) on English personality-relevant vocabulary is cited in Oliver P. John and Sanjay Srivastava, “The Big-Five Trait Taxonomy: History, Measurement, and Theoretical Perspectives,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Handbook of Personality: Theory and Research,</span>
 <span class="class-1">2nd ed., ed. L. Pervin and Oliver P. John (New York: Guilford, 1999).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">considered high:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Ian W. Eisenberg, Patrick G. Bissett, A. Zeynep Enkavi et al., “Uncovering the structure of self-regulation through data-driven ontology discovery,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Nature Communications</span>
 <span class="class-1">10 (2019): 2319.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">when physically threatened:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Walter Mischel, “Toward an integrative science of the person,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Annual Review of Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">55 (2004): 1–22.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 17</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">how MSE breaks down:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Whereas there is no general rule about the breakdown of bias and noise, the proportions in this figure are roughly representative of some of the examples, real or fictitious, that we have reviewed. Specifically, in this figure, bias and noise are equal (as they were in GoodSell’s sales forecasts). The square of level noise accounts for 37% of the square of</span>
 <span id="page_390" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">system noise (as it did in the punitive damages study). The square of occasion noise, as shown, is about 35% of the square of pattern noise.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">patent offices:</span>
 <span class="class-1">See references in introduction. Mark A. Lemley and Bhaven Sampat, “Examiner Characteristics and Patent Office Outcomes,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Review of Economics and Statistics</span>
 <span class="class-1">94, no. 3 (2012): 817–827. See also Iain Cockburn, Samuel Kortum, and Scott Stern, “Are All Patent Examiners Equal? The Impact of Examiner Characteristics,” working paper 8980, June 2002, www.nber.org/papers/w8980; and Michael D. Frakes and Melissa F. Wasserman, “Is the Time Allocated to Review Patent Applications Inducing Examiners to Grant Invalid Patents? Evidence from Microlevel Application Data,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Review of Economics and Statistics</span>
 <span class="class-1">99, no. 3 (July 2017): 550–563.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">child protection services:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Joseph J. Doyle Jr., “Child Protection and Child Outcomes: Measuring the Effects of Foster Care,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">American Economic Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">95, no. 5 (December 2007): 1583–1610.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">asylum judges</span>
<span class="class-1">: Andrew I. Schoenholtz, Jaya Ramji-Nogales, and Philip G. Schrag, “Refugee Roulette: Disparities in Asylum Adjudication,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Stanford Law Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">60, no. 2 (2007).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">about 2.8 years:</span>
 <span class="class-1">This value is estimated from calculations presented in chapter 6, where the interaction variance is 23% of total variance. On the assumption that sentences are normally distributed, the mean absolute difference between two randomly selected observations is 1.128 SD.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A group of researchers at Princeton:</span>
 <span class="class-1">J. E. Martinez, B. Labbree, S. Uddenberg, and A. Todorov, “Meaningful ‘noise’: Comparative judgments contain stable idiosyncratic contributions” (unpublished ms.).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">study of bail judges:</span>
 <span class="class-1">J. Kleinberg, H. Lakkaraju, J. Leskovec, J. Ludwig, and S. Mullainathan, “Human Decisions and Machine Predictions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Quarterly Journal of Economics</span>
 <span class="class-1">133 (2018): 237–293.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">applied the simulated judges:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The model produced for each judge both an ordering of the 141,833 cases and a threshold beyond which bail would be granted. Level noise reflects the variability of the thresholds, while pattern noise reflects variability in the ordering of cases.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">stable pattern noise:</span>
<span id="page_391" class="class-1"></span>
 <span class="class-1">Gregory Stoddard, Jens Ludwig, and Sendhil Mullainathan, e-mail exchanges with authors, June–July 2020.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Phil Rosenzweig has convincingly argued:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Phil Rosenzweig.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Left Brain, Right Stuff: How Leaders Make Winning Decisions</span>
 <span class="class-0">(New York: PublicAffairs, 2014).</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 18</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">crowd is composed of more able people:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Albert E. Mannes et al., “The Wisdom of Select Crowds,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">107, no. 2 (2014): 276–299; Jason Dana et al., “The Composition of Optimally Wise Crowds,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Decision Analysis</span>
 <span class="class-1">12, no. 3 (2015): 130–143.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">confidence heuristic:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Briony D. Pulford, Andrew M. Colmna, Eike K. Buabang, and Eva M. Krockow, “The Persuasive Power of Knowledge: Testing the Confidence Heuristic,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Experimental Psychology: General</span>
 <span class="class-1">147, no. 10 (2018): 1431–1444.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">it is associated not only:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Nathan R. Kuncel and Sarah A. Hezlett, “Fact and Fiction in Cognitive Ability Testing for Admissions and Hiring Decisions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Current Directions in Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">19, no. 6 (2010): 339–345.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">lingering misconceptions:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Kuncel and Hezlett, “Fact and Fiction.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">As one review put it:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Frank L. Schmidt and John Hunter, “General Mental Ability in the World of Work: Occupational Attainment and Job Performance,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">86, no. 1 (2004): 162.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">conscientiousness and</span>
 <span class="class-1">grit</span>
<span class="s2WT-2">:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Angela L. Duckworth, David Weir, Eli Tsukayama, and David Kwok, “Who Does Well in Life? Conscientious Adults Excel in Both Objective and Subjective Success,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Frontiers in Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">3 (September 2012). For grit, see Angela L. Duckworth, Christopher Peterson, Michael D. Matthews, and Dennis Kelly, “Grit: Perseverance and Passion for Long-Term Goals,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">92, no. 6 (2007): 1087–1101.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">fluid intelligence:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Richard E. Nisbett et al., “Intelligence: New Findings and Theoretical Developments,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">American Psychologist</span>
 <span id="page_392" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">67, no. 2 (2012): 130–159.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“larger than most”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Schmidt and Hunter, “Occupational Attainment,” 162.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">in the .50 range:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Kuncel and Hezlett, “Fact and Fiction.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">by social-science standards:</span>
 <span class="class-0">These correlations are derived from meta-analyses that correct the observed correlations for measurement error in the criterion and range restriction. There is some debate among researchers about whether these corrections overstate the predictive value of GMA. However, since these methodological debates apply to other predictors, too, experts generally agree that GMA (along with work sample tests; see chapter 24) is the best available predictor of job success. See Kuncel and Hezlett, “Fact and Fiction.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">almost no people with below-average GMA:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Schmidt and Hunter, “Occupational Attainment,” 162.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Even among the top 1%:</span>
 <span class="class-0">David Lubinski, “Exceptional Cognitive Ability: The Phenotype,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Behavior Genetics</span>
 <span class="class-0">39, no. 4 (2009): 350–358.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a 2013 study focused on the CEOs of Fortune 500 companies:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Jonathan Wai, “Investigating America’s Elite: Cognitive Ability, Education, and Sex Differences,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Intelligence</span>
 <span class="class-0">41, no. 4 (2013): 203–211.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Other questions that have been proposed:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Keela S. Thomson and Daniel M. Oppenheimer, “Investigating an Alternate Form of the Cognitive Reflection Test,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Judgment and Decision Making</span>
 <span class="class-0">11, no. 1 (2016): 99–113.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Lower CRT scores are associated:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Gordon Pennycook et al., “Everyday Consequences of Analytic Thinking,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Current Directions in Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">24, no. 6 (2015): 425–432.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">fall for blatantly inaccurate “fake news”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Gordon Pennycook and David G. Rand, “Lazy, Not Biased: Susceptibility to Partisan Fake News Is Better Explained by Lack of Reasoning than by Motivated Reasoning,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-0">188 (June 2018): 39–50.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">how much people will use their smartphones:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Nathaniel Barr et al., “The Brain in Your Pocket: Evidence That Smartphones Are Used to Supplant Thinking,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Computers in Human Behavior</span>
 <span class="class-0">48 (2015): 473–480.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the propensity to use reflective:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Niraj Patel, S. Glenn Baker, and</span>
 <span id="page_393" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">Laura D. Scherer, “Evaluating the Cognitive Reflection Test as a Measure of Intuition/Reflection, Numeracy, and Insight Problem Solving, and the Implications for Understanding Real-World Judgments and Beliefs,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Experimental Psychology: General</span>
 <span class="class-0">148, no. 12 (2019): 2129–2153.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">need-for-cognition scale:</span>
 <span class="class-0">John T. Cacioppo and Richard E. Petty, “The Need for Cognition,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">42, no. 1 (1982): 116–131.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">20.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">less susceptible to known cognitive biases:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Stephen M. Smith and Irwin P. Levin, “Need for Cognition and Choice Framing Effects,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Behavioral Decision Making</span>
 <span class="class-0">9, no. 4 (1996): 283–290.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">21.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">spoiler alert:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Judith E. Rosenbaum and Benjamin K. Johnson, “Who’s Afraid of Spoilers? Need for Cognition, Need for Affect, and Narrative Selection and Enjoyment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychology of Popular Media Culture</span>
 <span class="class-0">5, no. 3 (2016): 273–289.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">22.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Adult Decision Making Competence scale:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Wandi Bruine De Bruin et al., “Individual Differences in Adult Decision-Making Competence,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">92, no. 5 (2007): 938–956.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">23.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Halpern Critical Thinking:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Heather A. Butler, “Halpern Critical Thinking Assessment Predicts Real-World Outcomes of Critical Thinking,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Applied Cognitive Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">26, no. 5 (2012): 721–729.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">24.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">might predict forecasting ability:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Uriel Haran, Ilana Ritov, and Barbara Mellers, “The Role of Actively Open-Minded Thinking in Information Acquisition, Accuracy, and Calibration,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Judgment and Decision Making</span>
 <span class="class-0">8, no. 3 (2013): 188–201.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">25.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“actively open-minded thinking”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Haran, Ritov, and Mellers, “Role of Actively Open-Minded Thinking.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">26.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a teachable skill:</span>
 <span class="class-0">J. Baron, “Why Teach Thinking? An Essay,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Applied Psychology: An International Review</span>
 <span class="class-0">42 (1993): 191–214; J. Baron,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">The Teaching of Thinking: Thinking and Deciding,</span>
 <span class="class-0">2nd ed. (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1994), 127–148.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 19</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">their central findings:</span>
 <span class="class-1">For an excellent review, see Jack B. Soll et al., “A User’s Guide to Debiasing,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Wiley Blackwell Handbook of Judgment and Decision Making,</span>
<span id="page_394" class="class-1"></span>
 <span class="class-1">ed. Gideon Keren and George Wu, vol. 2 (New York: John Wiley &amp; Sons, 2015), 684.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2. The Green Book: HM Treasury,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Green Book: Central Government Guidance on Appraisal and Evaluation</span>
 <span class="class-1">(London: UK Crown, 2018), https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/685903/The_Green_Book.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3. nudges: Richard H. Thaler and Cass R. Sunstein,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Nudge: Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth, and Happiness</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2008).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4. boosting: Ralph Hertwig and Till Grüne-Yanoff, “Nudging and Boosting: Steering or Empowering Good Decisions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Perspectives on Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">12, no. 6 (2017).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">education is useful:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Geoffrey T. Fong et al., “The Effects of Statistical Training on Thinking About Everyday Problems,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Cognitive Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">18, no. 3 (1986): 253–292.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">just as overconfident:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Willem A. Wagenaar and Gideon B. Keren, “Does the Expert Know? The Reliability of Predictions and Confidence Ratings of Experts,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Intelligent Decision Support in Process Environments</span>
 <span class="class-1">(1986): 87–103.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">reduced the number of errors:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Carey K. Morewedge et al., “Debiasing Decisions: Improved Decision Making with a Single Training Intervention,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Policy Insights from the Behavioral and Brain Sciences</span>
 <span class="class-1">2, no. 1 (2015): 129–140.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">applied this learning:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Anne-Laure Sellier et al., “Debiasing Training Transfers to Improve Decision Making in the Field,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">30, no. 9 (2019): 1371–1379.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9. bias blind spot: Emily Pronin et al., “The Bias Blind Spot: Perceptions of Bias in Self Versus Others,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin</span>
 <span class="class-1">28, no. 3 (2002): 369–381.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">biases that may have affected:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Daniel Kahneman, Dan Lovallo, and Olivier Sibony, “Before You Make That Big Decision…,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Harvard Business Review</span>
 <span class="class-0">89, no. 6 (June 2011): 50–60.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">checklists have a long history:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Atul Gawande,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Checklist Manifesto: How to Get Things Right</span>
 <span class="class-0">(New York: Metropolitan Books, 2010).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a simple checklist:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs,</span>
 <span id="page_395" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">“Agency Checklist: Regulatory Impact Analysis,” no date, www.whitehouse.gov/sites/whitehouse.gov/files/omb/inforeg/inforeg/regpol/RIA_Checklist.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">we have included:</span>
 <span class="class-0">This checklist is partly adapted from Daniel Kahneman et al., “Before You Make That Big Decision,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Harvard Business Review</span>
<span class="class-0">.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">facilitate its adoption:</span>
 <span class="class-0">See Gawande,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Checklist Manifesto</span>
<span class="class-0">.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 20</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“a human error”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">R. Stacey, “A Report on the Erroneous Fingerprint Individualisation in the Madrid Train Bombing Case,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Forensic Identification</span>
 <span class="class-1">54 (2004): 707–718.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The FBI website:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Michael Specter, “Do Fingerprints Lie?,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The New Yorker,</span>
 <span class="class-1">May 27, 2002. Emphasis added.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">As Dror puts it:</span>
 <span class="class-1">I. E. Dror and R. Rosenthal, “Meta-analytically Quantifying the Reliability and Biasability of Forensic Experts,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Forensic Science</span>
 <span class="class-1">53 (2008): 900–903.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">In the first study:</span>
 <span class="class-1">I. E. Dror, D. Charlton, and A. E. Péron, “Contextual Information Renders Experts Vulnerable to Making Erroneous Identifications,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Forensic Science International</span>
 <span class="class-1">156 (2006): 74–78.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">In the second study:</span>
 <span class="class-1">I. E. Dror amd D. Charlton, “Why Experts Make Errors,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Forensic Identification</span>
 <span class="class-1">56 (2006): 600–616.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“expert fingerprint examiners”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">I. E. Dror and S. A. Cole, “The Vision in ‘Blind’ Justice: Expert Perception, Judgment, and Visual Cognition in Forensic Pattern Recognition,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Psychonomic Bulletin and Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">17 (2010): 161–167, 165. See also I. E. Dror, “A Hierarchy of Expert Performance (HEP),”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-1">(2016): 1–6.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">In a separate study:</span>
 <span class="class-1">I. E. Dror et al., “Cognitive Issues in Fingerprint Analysis: Inter- and Intra-Expert Consistency and the Effect of a ‘Target’ Comparison,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Forensic Science International</span>
 <span class="class-1">208 (2011): 10–17.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A later, independent study:</span>
 <span class="class-1">B. T. Ulery, R. A. Hicklin, M. A. Roberts, and J. A. Buscaglia, “Changes in Latent Fingerprint Examiners’ Markup Between Analysis and Comparison,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Forensic Science International</span>
 <span class="class-1">247 (2015): 54–61.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Even DNA analysis:</span>
<span id="page_396" class="class-1"></span>
 <span class="class-1">I. E. Dror and G. Hampikian, “Subjectivity and Bias in Forensic DNA Mixture Interpretation,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Science and Justice</span>
 <span class="class-1">51 (2011): 204–208.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Examiners often receive:</span>
 <span class="class-0">M. J. Saks, D. M. Risinger, R. Rosenthal, and W. C. Thompson, “Context Effects in Forensic Science: A Review and Application of the Science of Science to Crime Laboratory Practice in the United States,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Science Justice Journal of Forensic Science Society</span>
 <span class="class-0">43 (2003): 77–90.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the verifying examiner knows:</span>
 <span class="class-0">President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST),</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Report to the President: Forensic Science in Criminal Courts: Ensuring Scientific Validity of Feature-Comparison Methods</span>
 <span class="class-0">(Washington, DC: Executive Office of the President, PCAST, 2016).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the later investigation of the error:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Stacey, “Erroneous Fingerprint.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a highly respected independent expert:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Dror and Cole, “Vision in ‘Blind’ Justice.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">bias cascades:</span>
 <span class="class-0">I. E. Dror, “Biases in Forensic Experts,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">360 (2018): 243.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">sometimes change their minds:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Dror and Charlton, “Why Experts Make Errors.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">A 2012 study:</span>
 <span class="class-0">B. T. Ulery, R. A. Hicklin, J. A. Buscaglia, and M. A. Roberts, “Repeatability and Reproducibility of Decisions by Latent Fingerprint Examiners,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">PLoS One</span>
 <span class="class-0">7 (2012).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the Innocence Project:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Innocence Project, “Overturning Wrongful Convictions Involving Misapplied Forensics,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Misapplication of Forensic Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">(2018): 1–7, www.innocenceproject.org/causes/misapplication-forensic-science. See also S. M. Kassin, I. E. Dror, J. Kukucka, and L. Butt, “The Forensic Confirmation Bias: Problems, Perspectives, and Proposed Solutions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-0">2 (2013): 42–52.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">an in-depth review:</span>
 <span class="class-0">PCAST,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Report to the President</span>
<span class="class-0">.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">large-scale study of fingerprint:</span>
 <span class="class-0">B. T. Ulery, R. A. Hicklin, J. Buscaglia, and M. A. Roberts, “Accuracy and Reliability of Forensic Latent Fingerprint Decisions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences</span>
 <span class="class-0">108 (2011): 7733–7738.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">20. “much higher”: (PCAST),</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Report to the President</span>
<span class="class-0">, p. 95.</span>
 <span id="page_397" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">Emphasis in original.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">21.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">subsequent study conducted in Florida:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Igor Pacheco, Brian Cerchiai, and Stephanie Stoiloff, “Miami-Dade Research Study for the Reliability of the ACE-V Process: Accuracy &amp; Precision in Latent Fingerprint Examinations,” final report, Miami-Dade Police Department Forensic Services Bureau, 2014, www.ncjrs.gov/pdffiles1/nij/grants/248534.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">22.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“in most casework”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">B. T. Ulery, R. A. Hicklin, M. A. Roberts, and J. A. Buscaglia, “Factors Associated with Latent Fingerprint Exclusion Determinations,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Forensic Science International</span>
 <span class="class-0">275 (2017): 65–75.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">23.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">far fewer false-positive identifications:</span>
 <span class="class-0">R. N. Haber and I. Haber, “Experimental Results of Fingerprint Comparison Validity and Reliability: A Review and Critical Analysis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Science &amp; Justice</span>
 <span class="class-0">54 (2014): 375–389.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">24.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“It is easier to bias”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Dror, “Hierarchy of Expert Performance,” 3.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">25.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“seek employment in Disneyland”</span>
<span class="class-0">: M. Leadbetter, letter to the editor,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Fingerprint World</span>
 <span class="class-0">33 (2007): 231.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">26.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“</span>
<span class="class-0">without actually altering their judgment</span>
<span class="s2WT-1">”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">L. Butt, “The Forensic Confirmation Bias: Problems, Perspectives and Proposed Solutions—Commentary by a Forensic Examiner,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-0">2 (2013): 59–60. Emphasis added.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">27.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Even the FBI:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Stacey, “Erroneous Fingerprint,” 713. Emphasis added.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">28.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">In a survey of four hundred:</span>
 <span class="class-0">J. Kukucka, S. M. Kassin, P. A. Zapf, and I. E. Dror, “Cognitive Bias and Blindness: A Global Survey of Forensic Science Examiners,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Research in Memory and Cognition</span>
 <span class="class-0">6 (2017).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">29. linear sequential unmasking: I. E. Dror et al., letter to the editor: “Context Management Toolbox: A Linear Sequential Unmasking (LSU) Approach for Minimizing Cognitive Bias in Forensic Decision Making,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Forensic Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">60 (2015): 1111–1112.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 21</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">official agencies:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jeffrey A. Frankel, “Over-optimism in Forecasts</span>
 <span id="page_398" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">by Official Budget Agencies and Its Implications,” working paper 17239, National Bureau of Economic Research, December 2011, www.nber.org/papers/w17239.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">tend to be overconfident:</span>
 <span class="class-1">H. R. Arkes, “Overconfidence in Judgmental Forecasting,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Principles of Forecasting: A Handbook for Researchers and Practitioners,</span>
 <span class="class-1">ed. Jon Scott Armstrong, vol. 30, International Series in Operations Research &amp; Management Science (Boston: Springer, 2001).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">an ongoing quarterly survey:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Itzhak Ben-David, John Graham, and Campell Harvey, “Managerial Miscalibration,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Quarterly Journal of Economics</span>
 <span class="class-1">128, no. 4 (November 2013): 1547–1584.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“unreliability is a source”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">T. R. Stewart, “Improving Reliability of Judgmental Forecasts,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Principles of Forecasting: A Handbook for Researchers and Practitioners,</span>
 <span class="class-1">ed. Jon Scott Armstrong, vol. 30, International Series in Operations Research &amp; Management Science (Boston: Springer, 2001) (hereafter cited as</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Principles of Forecasting</span>
<span class="class-1">), 82.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">to predict Supreme Court rulings:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Theodore W. Ruger, Pauline T. Kim, Andrew D. Martin, and Kevin M. Quinn, “The Supreme Court Forecasting Project: Legal and Political Science Approaches to Predicting Supreme Court Decision-Making,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Columbia Law Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">104 (2004): 1150–1209.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">air pollution regulation:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Cass Sunstein, “Maximin,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Yale Journal of Regulation</span>
 <span class="class-1">(draft; May 3, 2020), https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3476250.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">many examples:</span>
 <span class="class-1">For numerous examples, see Armstrong,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Principles of Forecasting.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">averaging multiple forecasts:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jon Scott Armstrong, “Combining Forecasts,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Principles of Forecasting,</span>
 <span class="class-1">417–439.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">outperforms most:</span>
 <span class="class-1">T. R. Stewart, “Improving Reliability of Judgmental Forecasts,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Principles of Forecasting,</span>
 <span class="class-1">95.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">an average of 12.5%:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Armstrong, “Combining Forecasts.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11. select-crowd: Albert E. Mannes et al., “The Wisdom of Select Crowds,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Personality and Social Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">107, no. 2 (2014): 276–299.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">prediction markets have been found to do very well:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz, “Prediction Markets,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Economic Perspectives</span>
<span id="page_399" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">18 (2004): 107–126.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">used prediction markets:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Cass R. Sunstein and Reid Hastie,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Wiser: Getting Beyond Groupthink to Make Groups Smarter</span>
 <span class="class-0">(Boston: Harvard Business Review Press, 2014).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Delphi method</span>
<span class="class-0">: Gene Rowe and George Wright, “The Delphi Technique as a Forecasting Tool: Issues and Analysis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">International Journal of Forecasting</span>
 <span class="class-0">15 (1999): 353–375. See also Dan Bang and Chris D. Frith, “Making Better Decisions in Groups,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Royal Society Open Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">4, no. 8 (2017).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">challenging to implement:</span>
 <span class="class-0">R. Hastie, “Review Essay: Experimental Evidence on Group Accuracy,” in B. Grofman and G. Guillermo, eds.,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Information Pooling and Group Decision Making</span>
 <span class="class-0">(Greenwich, CT: JAI Press, 1986), 129–157.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16. mini-Delphi: Andrew H. Van De Ven and André L. Delbecq, “The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Academy of Management Journal</span>
 <span class="class-0">17, no. 4 (2017).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“better than the average”: Superforecasting,</span>
 <span class="class-0">95.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“the strongest predictor”: Superforecasting,</span>
 <span class="class-0">231.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“try, fail, analyze”: Superforecasting,</span>
 <span class="class-0">273.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">20.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a sophisticated statistical technique:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Ville A. Satopää, Marat Salikhov, Philip E. Tetlock, and Barb Mellers, “Bias, Information, Noise: The BIN Model of Forecasting,” February 19, 2020, 23, https://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3540864.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">21.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“Whenever an intervention”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Satopää et al., “Bias, Information, Noise,” 23.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">22.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“Teaming—unlike training”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Satopää et al., 22.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">23.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“‘Superforecasters’ may owe”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Satopää et al., 24.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">24.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">both independent and complementary:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Clintin P. Davis-Stober, David V. Budescu, Stephen B. Broomell, and Jason Dana. “The composition of optimally wise crowds.”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Decision Analysis</span>
 <span class="class-0">12, no. 3 (2015): 130–143.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 22</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Quantifying tendon degeneration produces:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Laura Horton et al., “Development and Assessment of Inter- and Intra-Rater Reliability of a Novel Ultrasound Tool for Scoring Tendon and Sheath Disease: A Pilot Study,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Ultrasound</span>
 <span class="class-1">24, no. 3 (2016): 134,</span>
 <span id="page_400" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5105362.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">When pathologists evaluate core:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Laura C. Collins et al., “Diagnostic Agreement in the Evaluation of Image-guided Breast Core Needle Biopsies,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">American Journal of Surgical Pathology</span>
 <span class="class-1">28 (2004): 126, https://journals.lww.com/ajsp/Abstract/2004/01000/Diagnostic_Agreement_in_the_Evaluation_of.15.aspx.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Without the rapid antigen result:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Julie L. Fierro et al., “Variability in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Group A Streptococcal Pharyngitis by Primary Care Pediatricians,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Infection Control and Hospital Epidemiology</span>
 <span class="class-1">35, no. S3 (2014): S79, www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/677820.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">you are considered to have diabetes:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Diabetes Tests, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, https://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/basics/getting-tested.html (last accessed January 15, 2020).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">In some hospitals, a second:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Joseph D. Kronz et al., “Mandatory Second Opinion Surgical Pathology at a Large Referral Hospital,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Cancer</span>
 <span class="class-1">86 (1999): 2426, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19991201)86:11%3C2426::AID-CNCR34%3E3.0.CO;2-3.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Dartmouth Atlas Project has dedicated:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Most of the material can be found online; a book-length outline is Dartmouth Medical School,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Quality of Medical Care in the United States: A Report on the Medicare Program; the Dartmouth Atlas of Health Care 1999</span>
 <span class="class-1">(American Hospital Publishers, 1999).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Similar conclusions hold in:</span>
 <span class="class-1">See, for example, OECD,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Geographic Variations in Health Care: What Do We Know and What Can Be Done to Improve Health System Performance?</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Paris: OECD Publishing, 2014), 137–169; Michael P. Hurley et al., “Geographic Variation in Surgical Outcomes and Cost Between the United States and Japan,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">American Journal of Managed Care</span>
 <span class="class-1">22 (2016): 600, www.ajmc.com/journals/issue/2016/2016-vol22-n9/geographic-variation-in-surgical-outcomes-and-cost-between-the-united-states-and-japan; and John Appleby, Veena Raleigh, Francesca Frosini, Gwyn Bevan, Haiyan Gao, and Tom Lyscom,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Variations in Health Care: The Good, the Bad and the Inexplicable</span>
 <span class="class-1">(London: The King’s Fund, 2011),</span>
 <span id="page_401" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">www.kingsfund.org.uk/sites/default/files/Variations-in-health-care-good-bad-inexplicable-report-The-Kings-Fund-April-2011.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A study of pneumonia diagnoses:</span>
 <span class="class-1">David C. Chan Jr. et al., “Selection with Variation in Diagnostic Skill: Evidence from Radiologists,” National Bureau of Economic Research, NBER Working Paper No. 26467, November 2019, www.nber.org/papers/w26467.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Here as elsewhere, training:</span>
 <span class="class-1">P. J. Robinson, “Radiology’s Achilles’ Heel: Error and Variation in the Interpretation of the Röntgen Image,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">British Journal of Radiology</span>
 <span class="class-1">70 (1997): 1085, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9536897. A relevant study is Yusuke Tsugawa et al., “Physician Age and Outcomes in Elderly Patients in Hospital in the US: Observational Study,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">BMJ</span>
 <span class="class-1">357 (2017), www.bmj.com/content/357/bmj.j1797, which finds that doctors’ outcomes get worse the further they are out from training. It follows that there is a trade-off between developing experience, which comes from years of practice, and having familiarity with the most recent evidence and guidelines. The study finds that the best outcomes come from doctors who are in the first few years out of residency, when they have that evidence in mind.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Radiologists, for example, call:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Robinson, “Radiology’s Achilles’ Heel.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11. the kappa statistic: Like the correlation coefficient, kappa can be negative, although that is rare in practice. Here is one characterization of the meaning of different kappa statistics: “slight (κ = 0.00 to 0.20), fair (κ = 0.21 to 0.40), moderate (κ = 0.41 to 0.60), substantial (κ = 0.61 to 0.80), and almost perfect (κ &gt; 0.80)” (Ron Wald, Chaim M. Bell, Rosane Nisenbaum, Samuel Perrone, Orfeas Liangos, Andreas Laupacis, and Bertrand L. Jaber, “Interobserver Reliability of Urine Sediment Interpretation,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Clinical Journal of the American Society of Nephrology</span>
 <span class="class-0">4, no. 3 [March 2009]: 567–571, https://cjasn.asnjournals.org/content/4/3/567).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">drug-drug interactions:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Howard R. Strasberg et al., “Inter-Rater Agreement Among Physicians on the Clinical Significance of Drug-Drug Interactions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings</span>
 <span class="class-0">(2013): 1325,</span>
 <span id="page_402" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3900147.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">But nephrologists show only:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Wald et al., “Interobserver Reliability of Urine Sediment Interpretation,” https://cjasn.asnjournals.org/content/4/3/567.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">whether a breast lesion:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Juan P. Palazzo et al., “Hyperplastic Ductal and Lobular Lesions and Carcinomas in Situ of the Breast: Reproducibility of Current Diagnostic Criteria Among Community- and Academic-Based Pathologists,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Breast Journal</span>
 <span class="class-0">4 (2003): 230, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21223441.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">breast proliferative lesions:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Rohit K. Jain et al., “Atypical Ductal Hyperplasia: Interobserver and Intraobserver Variability,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Modern Pathology</span>
 <span class="class-0">24 (2011): 917, www.nature.com/articles/modpathol201166.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">degree of spinal stenosis:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Alex C. Speciale et al., “Observer Variability in Assessing Lumbar Spinal Stenosis Severity on Magnetic Resonance Imaging and Its Relation to Cross-Sectional Spinal Canal Area,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Spine</span>
 <span class="class-0">27 (2002): 1082, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12004176.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Heart disease is the leading cause:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, “Heart Disease Facts,” accessed June 16, 2020, www.cdc.gov/heartdisease/facts.htm.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">An early study found that 31%:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Timothy A. DeRouen et al., “Variability in the Analysis of Coronary Arteriograms,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Circulation</span>
 <span class="class-0">55 (1977): 324, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/832349.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">They disagreed dramatically:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Olaf Buchweltz et al., “Interobserver Variability in the Diagnosis of Minimal and Mild Endometriosis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">European Journal of Obstetrics &amp; Gynecology and Reproductive Biology</span>
 <span class="class-0">122 (2005): 213, www.ejog.org/article/S0301-2115(05)00059-X/pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">20.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">significant variability in diagnosis of TB:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Jean-Pierre Zellweger et al., “Intra-observer and Overall Agreement in the Radiological Assessment of Tuberculosis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">International Journal of Tuberculosis &amp; Lung Disease</span>
 <span class="class-0">10 (2006): 1123, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17044205. For “fair” interrater agreement, see Yanina Balabanova et al., “Variability in Interpretation of Chest Radiographs Among Russian Clinicians and Implications for Screening Programmes: Observational Study,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">BMJ</span>
<span id="page_403" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">331 (2005): 379, www.bmj.com/content/331/7513/379.short.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">21.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">between radiologists in different countries:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Shinsaku Sakurada et al., “Inter-Rater Agreement in the Assessment of Abnormal Chest X-Ray Findings for Tuberculosis Between Two Asian Countries,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">BMC Infectious Diseases</span>
 <span class="class-0">12, article 31 (2012), https://bmcinfectdis.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/1471-2334-12-31.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">22.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">The eight pathologists reviewing:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Evan R. Farmer et al., “Discordance in the Histopathologic Diagnosis of Melanoma and Melanocytic Nevi Between Expert Pathologists,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Human Pathology</span>
 <span class="class-0">27 (1996): 528, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8666360.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">23.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Another study at an oncology center:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Alfred W. Kopf, M. Mintzis, and R. S. Bart, “Diagnostic Accuracy in Malignant Melanoma,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Archives of Dermatology</span>
 <span class="class-0">111 (1975): 1291, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1190800.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">24.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">The authors of the study conclude that:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Maria Miller and A. Bernard Ackerman, “How Accurate Are Dermatologists in the Diagnosis of Melanoma? Degree of Accuracy and Implications,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Archives of Dermatology</span>
 <span class="class-0">128 (1992): 559, https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamadermatology/fullarticle/554024.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">25.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Similarly, false-positive rates ranged:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Craig A. Beam et al., “Variability in the Interpretation of Screening Mammograms by US Radiologists,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Archives of Internal Medicine</span>
 <span class="class-0">156 (1996): 209, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8546556.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">26.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Radiologists sometimes offer:</span>
 <span class="class-0">P. J. Robinson et al., “Variation Between Experienced Observers in the Interpretation of Accident and Emergency Radiographs,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">British Journal of Radiology</span>
 <span class="class-0">72 (1999): 323, www.birpublications.org/doi/pdf/10.1259/bjr.72.856.10474490.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">27.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the degree of blockage in angiograms:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Katherine M. Detre et al., “Observer Agreement in Evaluating Coronary Angiograms,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Circulation</span>
 <span class="class-0">52 (1975): 979, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1102142.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">28.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">In areas that involve vague criteria:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Horton et al., “Inter- and</span>
 <span id="page_404" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">Intra-Rater Reliability”; and Megan Banky et al., “Inter- and Intra-Rater Variability of Testing Velocity When Assessing Lower Limb Spasticity,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine</span>
 <span class="class-0">51 (2019), www.medicaljournals.se/jrm/content/abstract/10.2340/16501977-2496.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">29.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">But another study, not involving:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Esther Y. Hsiang et al., “Association of Primary Care Clinic Appointment Time with Clinician Ordering and Patient Completion of Breast and Colorectal Cancer Screening,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">JAMA Network Open</span>
 <span class="class-0">51 (2019), https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2733171.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">30.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Another illustration of the role:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Hengchen Dai et al., “The Impact of Time at Work and Time Off from Work on Rule Compliance: The Case of Hand Hygiene in Health Care,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">100 (2015): 846, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25365728.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">31.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a major contribution:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Ali S. Raja, “The HEART Score Has Substantial Interrater Reliability,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">NEJM J Watch,</span>
 <span class="class-0">December 5, 2018, www.jwatch.org/na47998/2018/12/05/heart-score-has-substantial-interrater-reliability (reviewing Colin A. Gershon et al., “Inter-rater Reliability of the HEART Score,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Academic Emergency Medicine</span>
 <span class="class-0">26 [2019]: 552).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">32.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">As we mentioned, training:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Jean-Pierre Zellweger et al., “Intra-observer and Overall Agreement in the Radiological Assessment of Tuberculosis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">International Journal of Tuberculosis &amp; Lung Disease</span>
 <span class="class-0">10 (2006): 1123, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17044205; Ibrahim Abubakar et al., “Diagnostic Accuracy of Digital Chest Radiography for Pulmonary Tuberculosis in a UK Urban Population,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">European Respiratory Journal</span>
 <span class="class-0">35 (2010): 689, https://erj.ersjournals.com/content/35/3/689.short.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">33.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">So does the aggregation of multiple:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Michael L. Barnett et al., “Comparative Accuracy of Diagnosis by Collective Intelligence of Multiple Physicians vs Individual Physicians,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">JAMA Network Open</span>
 <span class="class-0">2 (2019): e19009, https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2726709; Kimberly H. Allison et al., “Understanding Diagnostic Variability in Breast Pathology: Lessons Learned from an Expert Consensus Review Panel,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Histopathology</span>
 <span class="class-0">65 (2014):</span>
 <span id="page_405" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">240, https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/his.12387.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">34.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">The best of these have been found:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Babak Ehteshami Bejnordi et al., “Diagnostic Assessment of Deep Learning Algorithms for Detection of Lymph Node Metastases in Women with Breast Cancer,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">JAMA</span>
 <span class="class-0">318 (2017): 2199, https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2665774.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">35.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Deep-learning algorithms have:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Varun Gulshan et al., “Development and Validation of a Deep Learning Algorithm for Detection of Diabetic Retinopathy in Retinal Fundus Photographs,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">JAMA</span>
 <span class="class-0">316 (2016): 2402, https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jama/fullarticle/2588763.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">36.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">AI now performs at least:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Mary Beth Massat, “A Promising Future for AI in Breast Cancer Screening,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Applied Radiology</span>
 <span class="class-0">47 (2018): 22, www.appliedradiology.com/articles/a-promising-future-for-ai-in-breast-cancer-screening; Alejandro Rodriguez-Ruiz et al., “Stand-Alone Artificial Intelligence for Breast Cancer Detection in Mammography: Comparison with 101 Radiologists,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of the National Cancer Institute</span>
 <span class="class-0">111 (2019): 916, https://academic.oup.com/jnci/advance-article-abstract/doi/10.1093/jnci/djy222/5307077.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">37. Table 3: Apgar Score, Medline Plus, https://medlineplus.gov/ency/article/003402.htm (last accessed February 4, 2020).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">38.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Apgar scoring produces little noise:</span>
 <span class="class-0">L. R. Foster et al., “The Interrater Reliability of Apgar Scores at 1 and 5 Minutes,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Investigative Medicine</span>
 <span class="class-0">54, no. 1 (2006): 293, https://jim.bmj.com/content/54/1/S308.4.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">39.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Assessment and scoring are relatively:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Warren J. McIsaac et al., “Empirical Validation of Guidelines for the Management of Pharyngitis in Children and Adults,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">JAMA</span>
 <span class="class-0">291 (2004): 1587, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15069046.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">40.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">One study found that BI-RADS:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Emilie A. Ooms et al., “Mammography: Interobserver Variability in Breast Density Assessment,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Breast</span>
 <span class="class-0">16 (2007): 568, www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0960977607000793.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">41.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">In pathology, there have been:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Frances P. O’Malley et al.,</span>
 <span id="page_406" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">“Interobserver Reproducibility in the Diagnosis of Flat Epithelial Atypia of the Breast,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Modern Pathology</span>
 <span class="class-0">19 (2006): 172, www.nature.com/articles/3800514.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">42.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">For that reason, noise reduction:</span>
 <span class="class-0">See Ahmed Aboraya et al., “The Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis Revisited,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychiatry (Edgmont)</span>
 <span class="class-0">3 (2006): 41, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2990547. For an overview, see N. Kreitman, “The Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Mental Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">107 (1961): 876–886, www.cambridge.org/core/journals/journal-of-mental-science/article/reliability-of-psychiatric-diagnosis/92832FFA170F4FF41189428C6A3E6394.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">43.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">A 1964 study involving 91 patients:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Aboraya et al., “Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis Revisited,” 43.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">44.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">But in a preliminary effort to:</span>
 <span class="class-0">C. H. Ward et al., “The Psychiatric Nomenclature: Reasons for Diagnostic Disagreement,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Archives of General Psychiatry</span>
 <span class="class-0">7 (1962): 198.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">45.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">While a “clinician with developmental training”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Aboraya et al., “Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis Revisited.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">46.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">DSM-III led to a dramatic:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Samuel M. Lieblich, David J. Castle, Christos Pantelis, Malcolm Hopwood, Allan Hunter Young, and Ian P. Everall, “High Heterogeneity and Low Reliability in the Diagnosis of Major Depression Will Impair the Development of New Drugs,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">British Journal of Psychiatry Open</span>
 <span class="class-0">1 (2015): e5–e7, www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5000492/pdf/bjporcpsych_1_2_e5.pdf.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">47.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">But the manual was far:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Lieblich et al., “High Heterogeneity.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">48.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Even after a significant 2000 revision:</span>
 <span class="class-0">See Elie Cheniaux et al., “The Diagnoses of Schizophrenia, Schizoaffective Disorder, Bipolar Disorder and Unipolar Depression: Interrater Reliability and Congruence Between DSM-IV and ICD-10,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychopathology</span>
 <span class="class-0">42 (2009): 296–298, especially 293; and Michael Chmielewski et al., “Method Matters: Understanding Diagnostic Reliability in DSM-IV and DSM-5,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Abnormal Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">124 (2015): 764, 768–769.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">49.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“increase the reliability of psychiatric diagnoses”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Aboraya et al., “Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis Revisited,” 47.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">50.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">a serious risk:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Aboraya et al., 47.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">51.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Another version of the manual:</span>
<span id="page_407" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">See Chmielewski et al., “Method Matters.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">52.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">The American Psychiatric Association:</span>
 <span class="class-0">See, for example, Helena Chmura Kraemer et al., “DSM-5: How Reliable Is Reliable Enough?,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">American Journal of Psychiatry</span>
 <span class="class-0">169 (2012): 13–15.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">53.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">psychiatrists continue to show:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Lieblich et al., “High Heterogeneity.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">54.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“psychiatrists have a hard time”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Lieblich et al., “High Heterogeneity,” e-5.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">55.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Field trials for DSM-5 found:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Lieblich et al., e-5.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">56.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">According to some field trials:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Lieblich et al., e-6.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">57.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">The major reason for the limited:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Aboraya et al., “Reliability of Psychiatric Diagnosis Revisited,” 47.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">58.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">These include (1) clarifying:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Aboraya et al.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">59.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">In the words of one observer:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Aboraya et al.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">60.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">The medical profession needs more:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Some valuable cautionary notes can be found in Christopher Worsham and Anupam B. Jena, “The Art of Evidence-Based Medicine,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Harvard Business Review,</span>
 <span class="class-0">January 30, 2019, https://hbr.org/2019/01/the-art-of-evidence-based-medicine.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 23</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">one newspaper headline:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jena McGregor, “Study Finds That Basically Every Single Person Hates Performance Reviews,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Washington Post,</span>
 <span class="class-1">January 27, 2014.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">ubiquity of judgment-based:</span>
 <span class="class-1">The digital transformation that many organizations are undergoing may create new possibilities here. In theory, companies can now collect great amounts of granular, real-time information about the performance of every worker. This data may make entirely algorithmic performance evaluations possible for some positions. We focus here, however, on the positions for which judgment cannot be entirely eliminated from the measurement of performance. See E. D. Pulakos, R. Mueller-Hanson, and S. Arad, “The Evolution of Performance Management: Searching for Value,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Annual Review of Organizational Psychology and Organizational Behavior</span>
 <span class="class-1">6 (2018): 249–271.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Most researchers find:</span>
 <span class="class-1">S. E. Scullen, M. K. Mount, and M. Goff,</span>
 <span id="page_408" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">“Understanding the Latent Structure of Job Performance Ratings,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">85 (2000): 956–970.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The rest, 70 to 80% variance:</span>
 <span class="class-1">A small component—10% of total variance in some studies—is what researchers call the</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">rater perspective,</span>
 <span class="class-1">or the</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">level</span>
 <span class="class-1">effect, in the sense of level in the organization, not of the</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">level noise</span>
 <span class="class-1">as we define it here. The rater perspective reflects that, in rating the same person, a boss differs systematically from a peer, and a peer from a subordinate. Under a charitable interpretation of results from 360-degree rating systems, one could argue that this is not noise. If people at different levels of the organization systematically see different facets of the same person’s performance, their judgment on that person should differ systematically, and their ratings should reflect it.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">multiple studies:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Scullen, Mount, and Goff, “Latent Structure”; C. Viswesvaran, D. S. Ones, and F. L. Schmidt, “Comparative Analysis of the Reliability of Job Performance Ratings,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">81 (1996): 557–574. G. J. Greguras and C. Robie, “A New Look at Within-Source Interrater Reliability of 360-Degree Feedback Ratings,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">83 (1998): 960–968; G. J. Greguras, C. Robie, D. J. Schleicher, and M. A. Goff, “A Field Study of the Effects of Rating Purpose on the Quality of Multisource Ratings,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Personnel Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">56 (2003): 1–21; C. Viswesvaran, F. L. Schmidt, and D. S. Ones, “Is There a General Factor in Ratings of Job Performance? A Meta-Analytic Framework for Disentangling Substantive and Error Influences,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">90 (2005): 108–131; and B. Hoffman, C. E. Lance, B. Bynum, and W. A. Gentry, “Rater Source Effects Are Alive and Well After All,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Personnel Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">63 (2010): 119–151.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“the relationship between job performance”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">K. R. Murphy, “Explaining the Weak Relationship Between Job Performance and Ratings of Job Performance,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Industrial and Organizational Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">1 (2008): 148–160, especially 151.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">an employee’s true performance:</span>
 <span class="class-1">In the discussion of sources of noise, we ignored the possibility of case noise arising from systematic biases in the rating of certain employees or categories of employees. None of the studies we could locate on the variability of performance ratings compared them with an</span>
 <span id="page_409" class="class-1"></span>
<span class="class-1">externally assessed “true” performance.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">rate people “strategically”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">E. D. Pulakos and R. S. O’Leary, “Why Is Performance Management Broken?,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Industrial and Organizational Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-1">4 (2011): 146–164; M. M. Harris, “Rater Motivation in the Performance Appraisal Context: A Theoretical Framework,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Management</span>
 <span class="class-1">20 (1994): 737–756; and K. R. Murphy and J. N. Cleveland,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Understanding Performance Appraisal: Social, Organizational, and Goal-Based Perspectives</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, 1995).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">purely developmental:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Greguras et al., “Field Study.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">predicts objectively measurable:</span>
 <span class="class-0">P. W. Atkins and R. E. Wood, “Self- Versus Others’ Ratings as Predictors of Assessment Center Ratings: Validation Evidence for 360-Degree Feedback Programs,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Personnel Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">(2002).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">11.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Overengineered questionnaires:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Atkins and Wood, “Self- Versus Others’ Ratings.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">12.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">98%:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Olson and Davis, cited in Peter G. Dominick, “Forced Ranking: Pros, Cons and Practices,” in</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Performance Management: Putting Research into Action,</span>
 <span class="class-0">ed. James W. Smither and Manuel London (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2009), 411–443.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">13.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">forced ranking:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Dominick, “Forced Ranking.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">14.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">to apply in performance ratings:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Barry R. Nathan and Ralph A. Alexander, “A Comparison of Criteria for Test Validation: A Meta-Analytic Investigation,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Personnel Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">41, no. 3 (1988): 517–535.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">15.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Figure 17:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Adapted from Richard D. Goffin and James M. Olson, “Is It All Relative? Comparative Judgments and the Possible Improvement of Self-Ratings and Ratings of Others,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Perspectives on Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">6, no. 1 (2011): 48–60.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">16.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Deloitte:</span>
 <span class="class-0">M. Buckingham and A. Goodall, “Reinventing Performance Management,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Harvard Business Review,</span>
 <span class="class-0">April 1, 2015, 1–16, doi:ISSN: 0017-8012.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">17.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">One study:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Corporate Leadership Council, cited in S. Adler et al., “Getting Rid of Performance Ratings: Genius or Folly? A Debate,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Industrial and Organizational Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">9 (2016): 219–252.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">18.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“No matter”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Pulakos, Mueller-Hanson, and Arad, “Evolution of Performance Management,” 250.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">19.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“performance management revolution”:</span>
<span id="page_410" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">A. Tavis and P. Cappelli, “The Performance Management Revolution,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Harvard Business Review,</span>
 <span class="class-0">October 2016, 1–17.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">20.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Evidence suggests:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Frank J. Landy and James L. Farr, “Performance Rating,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychological Bulletin</span>
 <span class="class-0">87, no. 1 (1980): 72–107.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">21.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">They practice rating performance:</span>
 <span class="class-0">D. J. Woehr and A. I. Huffcutt, “Rater Training for Performance Appraisal: A Quantitative Review,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">67 (1994): 189–205; S. G. Roch, D. J. Woehr, V. Mishra, and U. Kieszczynska, “Rater Training Revisited: An Updated Meta-Analytic Review of Frame-of-Reference Training,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">85 (2012): 370–395; and M. H. Tsai, S. Wee, and B. Koh, “Restructured Frame-of-Reference Training Improves Rating Accuracy,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Organizational Behavior</span>
 <span class="class-0">(2019): 1–18, doi:10.1002/job.2368.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">22.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Figure 18:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Left panel is adapted from Richard Goffin and James M. Olson, “Is It All Relative? Comparative Judgments and the Possible Improvement of Self-Ratings and Ratings of Others,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Perspectives on Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">6, no. 1 (2011): 48–60.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">23.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">the majority of studies:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Roch et al., “Rater Training Revisited.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">24.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“star talent”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Ernest O’Boyle and Herman Aguinis, “The Best and the Rest: Revisiting the Norm of Normality of Individual Performance,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Personnel Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">65, no. 1 (2012): 79–119; and Herman Aguinis and Ernest O’Boyle, “Star Performers in Twenty-First Century Organizations,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Personnel Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">67, no. 2 (2014): 313–350.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">25.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“It is rare”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">A. I. Huffcutt and S. S. Culbertson, “Interviews,” in S. Zedeck, ed.,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">APA Handbook of Industrial and Organizational Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">(Washington, DC: American Psychological Association, 2010), 185–203.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">26.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">rely to some degree on their intuitive judgments:</span>
 <span class="class-0">N. R. Kuncel, D. M. Klieger, and D. S. Ones, “In Hiring, Algorithms Beat Instinct,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Harvard Business Review</span>
 <span class="class-0">92, no. 5 (2014): 32.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">27.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“supreme problem”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">R. E. Ployhart, N. Schmitt, and N. T. Tippins, “Solving the Supreme Problem: 100 Years of Selection and Recruitment at the</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology,</span>
<span class="class-0">”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
<span id="page_411" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">102 (2017): 291–304.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">28.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Other studies report:</span>
 <span class="class-0">M. McDaniel, D. Whetzel, F. L. Schmidt, and S. Maurer, “Meta Analysis of the Validity of Employment Interviews,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">79 (1994): 599–616; A. Huffcutt and W. Arthur, “Hunter and Hunter (1984) Revisited: Interview Validity for Entry-Level Jobs,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">79 (1994): 2; F. L. Schmidt and J. E. Hunter, “The Validity and Utility of Selection Methods in Personnel Psychology: Practical and Theoretical Implications of 85 Years of Research Findings,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Psychology Bulletin</span>
 <span class="class-0">124 (1998): 262–274; and F. L. Schmidt and R. D. Zimmerman, “A Counterintuitive Hypothesis About Employment Interview Validity and Some Supporting Evidence,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">89 (2004): 553–561. Note that validities are higher when certain subsets of studies are considered, especially if research uses performance ratings specifically created for this purpose, rather than existing administrative ratings.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">29.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">objective ignorance:</span>
 <span class="class-0">S. Highhouse, “Stubborn Reliance on Intuition and Subjectivity in Employee Selection,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Industrial and Organizational Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">1 (2008): 333–342; D. A. Moore, “How to Improve the Accuracy and Reduce the Cost of Personnel Selection,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">California Management Review</span>
 <span class="class-0">60 (2017): 8–17.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">30.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">culturally similar to them:</span>
 <span class="class-0">L. A. Rivera, “Hiring as Cultural Matching: The Case of Elite Professional Service Firms,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">American Sociology Review</span>
 <span class="class-0">77 (2012): 999–1022.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">31.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Measures of the correlation:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Schmidt and Zimmerman, “Counterintuitive Hypothesis”; Timothy A. Judge, Chad A. Higgins, and Daniel M. Cable, “The Employment Interview: A Review of Recent Research and Recommendations for Future Research,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Human Resource Management Review</span>
 <span class="class-0">10 (2000): 383–406; and A. I. Huffcutt, S. S. Culbertson, and W. S. Weyhrauch, “Employment Interview Reliability: New Meta-Analytic Estimates by Structure and Format,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">International Journal of Selection and Assessment</span>
 <span class="class-0">21 (2013): 264–276.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">32.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">matter—a lot:</span>
 <span class="class-0">M. R. Barrick et al., “Candidate Characteristics Driving Initial Impressions During Rapport Building: Implications for Employment Interview Validity,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">85 (2012): 330–352; M. R. Barrick, B. W. Swider, and G. L. Stewart, “Initial</span>
 <span id="page_412" class="class-0"></span>
<span class="class-0">Evaluations in the Interview: Relationships with Subsequent Interviewer Evaluations and Employment Offers,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">95 (2010): 1163.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">33.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">quality of a handshake:</span>
 <span class="class-0">G. L. Stewart, S. L. Dustin, M. R. Barrick, and T. C. Darnold, “Exploring the Handshake in Employment Interviews,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">93 (2008): 1139–1146.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">34.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">positive first impressions:</span>
 <span class="class-0">T. W. Dougherty, D. B. Turban, and J. C. Callender, “Confirming First Impressions in the Employment Interview: A Field Study of Interviewer Behavior,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">79 (1994): 659–665.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">35.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">In one striking experiment:</span>
 <span class="class-0">J. Dana, R. Dawes, and N. Peterson, “Belief in the Unstructured Interview: The Persistence of an Illusion,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Judgment and Decision Making</span>
 <span class="class-0">8 (2013): 512–520.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">36.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">HR professionals favor:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Nathan R. Kuncel et al., “Mechanical versus Clinical Data Combination in Selection and Admissions Decisions: A Meta-Analysis,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Journal of Applied Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">98, no. 6 (2013): 1060–1072.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">37.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“zero relationship”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Laszlo Bock, interview with Adam Bryant,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">The New York Times</span>
<span class="class-0">, June 19, 2013. See also Laszlo Bock,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Work Rules!: Insights from Inside Google That Will Transform How You Live and Lead</span>
 <span class="class-0">(New York: Hachette, 2015).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">38.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">One prominent headhunter:</span>
 <span class="class-0">C. Fernández-Aráoz, “Hiring Without Firing,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Harvard Business Review,</span>
 <span class="class-0">July 1, 1999.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">39.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">structured behavioral interviews:</span>
 <span class="class-0">For an accessible guide to structured interviews, see Michael A. Campion, David K. Palmer, and James E. Campion, “Structuring Employment Interviews to Improve Reliability, Validity and Users’ Reactions,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Current Directions in Psychological Science</span>
 <span class="class-0">7, no. 3 (1998): 77–82.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">40.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">must include to qualify:</span>
 <span class="class-0">J. Levashina, C. J. Hartwell, F. P. Morgeson, and M. A. Campion, “The Structured Employment Interview: Narrative and Quantitative Review of the Research Literature,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Personnel Psychology</span>
 <span class="class-0">67 (2014): 241–293.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">41.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">structured interviews are far more predictive:</span>
 <span class="class-0">McDaniel et al., “Meta Analysis”; Huffcutt and Arthur, “Hunter and Hunter (1984) Revisited”; Schmidt and Hunter, “Validity and Utility”; and Schmidt and Zimmerman, “Counterintuitive Hypothesis.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">42.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">work sample tests:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Schmidt and Hunter, “Validity and Utility.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">43.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Israeli Army:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Kahneman,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Thinking, Fast and Slow,</span>
<span id="page_413" class="class-0"></span>
 <span class="class-0">229.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">44.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Practical advice:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Kuncel, Klieger, and Ones, “Algorithms Beat Instinct.” See also Campion, Palmer, and Campion, “Structuring Employment Interviews.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">45.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">“the persistence of an illusion”:</span>
 <span class="class-0">Dana, Dawes, and Peterson, “Belief in the Unstructured Interview.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 25</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">mediating assessments protocol:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Daniel Kahneman, Dan Lovallo, and Olivier Sibony, “A Structured Approach to Strategic Decisions: Reducing Errors in Judgment Requires a Disciplined Process,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">MIT Sloan Management Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">60 (2019): 67–73.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2. estimate-talk-estimate: Andrew H. Van De Ven and André Delbecq, “The Effectiveness of Nominal, Delphi, and Interacting Group Decision Making Processes,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Academy of Management Journal</span>
 <span class="class-1">17, no. 4 (1974): 605–621. See also chapter 21.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">P<span class="s2X9">ART</span>
 6</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">In their view:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Kate Stith and José A. Cabranes,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Fear of Judging: Sentencing Guidelines in the Federal Courts</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1998), 177.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 26</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">First, such efforts might:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Albert O. Hirschman,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Rhetoric of Reaction: Perversity, Futility, Jeopardy</span>
 <span class="class-1">(Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 1991).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Quoting Václav Havel, they:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Stith and Cabranes,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Fear of Judging.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“three strikes and you’re out”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">See, for example, Three Strikes Basics, Stanford Law School, https://law.stanford.edu/stanford-justice-advocacy-project/three-strikes-basics/.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“Woodson v. North Carolina”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">428 U.S. 280 (1976).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">can embed prejudice:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Cathy O’Neil,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Weapons of Math Destruction: How Big Data Increases Inequality and Threatens Democracy</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Crown, 2016).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">6.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“potentially biased”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Will Knight, “Biased Algorithms Are Everywhere, and No One Seems to Care,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">MIT Technology Review,</span>
<span id="page_414" class="class-1"></span>
 <span class="class-1">July 12, 2017.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">7.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">ProPublica:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Jeff Larson, Surya Mattu, Lauren Kirchner, and Julia Angwin, “How We Analyzed the COMPAS Recidivism Algorithm,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">ProPublica,</span>
 <span class="class-1">May 23, 2016, www.propublica.org/article/how-we-analyzed-the-compas-recidivism-algorithm. The claim of bias in this example is disputed, and different definitions of bias may lead to opposite conclusions. For views on this case and more broadly on the definition and measurement of algorithmic bias, see later note,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“Exactly how to test.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">8.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">“predictive policing”:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Aaron Shapiro, “Reform Predictive Policing,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Nature</span>
 <span class="class-1">541, no. 7638 (2017): 458–460.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">9.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Indeed, in this regard, algorithms:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Although this concern is resurfacing in the context of AI-based models, it is not specific to AI. As early as 1972, Paul Slovic noted that modeling intuition would preserve and reinforce, and perhaps even magnify, existing cognitive biases. Paul Slovic, “Psychological Study of Human Judgment: Implications for Investment Decision Making,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Journal of Finance</span>
 <span class="class-1">27 (1972): 779.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2CB">
<span class="class-0">10.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Exactly how to test:</span>
 <span class="class-0">For an introduction to this debate in the context of the controversy over the COMPAS recidivism-prediction algorithm, see Larson et al., “COMPAS Recidivism Algorithm”; William Dieterich et al., “COMPAS Risk Scales: Demonstrating Accuracy Equity and Predictive Parity,” Northpointe, Inc., July 8, 2016, http://go.volarisgroup.com/rs/430-MBX-989/images/ProPublica_Commentary_Final_070616.pdf; Julia Dressel and Hany Farid, “The Accuracy, Fairness, and Limits of Predicting Recidivism,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Science Advances</span>
 <span class="class-0">4, no. 1 (2018): 1–6; Sam Corbett-Davies et al., “A Computer Program Used for Bail and Sentencing Decisions Was Labeled Biased Against Blacks. It’s Actually Not That Clear,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Washington Post,</span>
 <span class="class-0">October 17, 2016, www.washingtonpost.com/news/monkey-cage/wp/2016/10/17/can-an-algorithm-be-racist-our-analysis-is-more-cautious-than-propublicas; Alexandra Chouldechova, “Fair Prediction with Disparate Impact: A Study of Bias in Recidivism Prediction Instruments,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-1">Big Data</span>
 <span class="class-0">153 (2017): 5; and Jon Kleinberg, Sendhil Mullainathan, and Manish Raghavan, “Inherent Trade-Offs in the Fair Determination of Risk Scores,” Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics, January 2017.</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
<span id="page_415"></span>
 27</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">They might know that their:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Tom R. Tyler,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Why People Obey the Law</span>
<span class="class-1">, 2nd ed. (New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2020).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">A famously puzzling decision in American: Cleveland Bd. of Educ. v. LaFleur</span>
<span class="class-1">, 414 U.S. 632 (1974).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Influential commentators at the time:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Laurence H. Tribe, “Structural Due Process,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Harvard Civil Rights–Civil Liberties Law Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">10, no. 2 (spring 1975): 269.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Recall the intensely negative:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Stith and Cabranes,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Fear of Judging,</span>
 <span class="class-1">177.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">5.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">In a series of energetic:</span>
 <span class="class-1">See, for example, Philip K. Howard,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Death of Common Sense: How Law Is Suffocating America</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: Random House, 1995); and Philip K. Howard,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Try Common Sense: Replacing the Failed Ideologies of Right and Left</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New York: W. W. Norton &amp; Company, 2019).</span>
</div>
<div class="s84">C<span class="s2X9">HAPTER</span>
 28</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">1.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Facebook’s Community Standards in 2020</span>
 <span class="class-1">12. Hate Speech, Facebook: Community Standards, www.facebook.com/communitystandards/hate_speech.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">2.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The New Yorker:</span>
 <span class="class-1">Andrew Marantz, “Why Facebook Can’t Fix Itself,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The New Yorker</span>
<span class="class-1">, October 12, 2020.</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">3.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">noisy judgments:</span>
 <span class="class-1">bureaucratic justice: Jerry L. Mashaw,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Bureaucratic Justice</span>
 <span class="class-1">(New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1983).</span>
</div>
<div class="s2BV">
<span class="class-1">4.</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Just the reverse largely obtained:</span>
 <span class="class-1">David M. Trubek, “Max Weber on Law and the Rise of Capitalism,”</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">Wisconsin Law Review</span>
 <span class="class-1">720 (1972): 733, n. 22 (quoting Max Weber,</span>
 <span class="s2WT-2">The Religion of China</span>
 <span class="class-1">[1951], 149).</span>
</div>
</body>
</html>
