<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0002</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_2" class="sW">Copyright © 2021 by Daniel Kahneman, Olivier Sibony, and Cass R. Sunstein</div>
<div class="sY">Cover design by Julian Humphries</div>
<div class="sY">Cover photograph copyright © Shutterstock</div>
<div class="sY">Cover copyright © 2021 by Hachette Book Group, Inc.</div>
<div class="s12">Hachette Book Group supports the right to free expression and the value of copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to produce the creative works that enrich our culture.</div>
<div class="s12">The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book without permission is a theft of the author’s intellectual property. If you would like permission to use material from the book (other than for review purposes), please contact permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support of the author’s rights.</div>
<div class="s12">Little, Brown Spark</div>
<div class="sY">Hachette Book Group</div>
<div class="sY">1290 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10104</div>
<div class="sY">
<a href="http://www.littlebrownspark.com">littlebrownspark.com</a>
</div>
<div class="sY">
<a href="http://www.twitter.com/lbsparkbooks">twitter.com/lbsparkbooks</a>
</div>
<div class="sY">
<a href="http://www.facebook.com/littlebrownspark">facebook.com/littlebrownspark</a>
</div>
<div class="sY">
<a href="http://www.Instagram.com/littlebrownspark">Instagram.com/littlebrownspark</a>
</div>
<div class="s12">First ebook edition: May 2021</div>
<div class="s12">Little, Brown Spark is an imprint of Little, Brown and Company, a division of Hachette Book Group, Inc. The Little, Brown Spark name and logo are trademarks of Hachette Book Group, Inc.</div>
<div class="s12">The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content) that are not owned by the publisher.</div>
<div class="s12">ISBN 978-0-316-45138-3</div>
<div class="s12">E3-20210415-JV-NF-ORI</div>
</body>
</html>
