<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0037</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_302" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XM">PART VI</a>
</div>
<div class="s6D">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XM">Optimal Noise</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">I</span>
n 1973, Judge Marvin Frankel was right to call for a sustained effort to reduce noise in criminal sentencing. His informal, intuitive noise audit, followed by more formal and systematic efforts, uncovered unjustified disparities in the treatment of similar people. Those disparities were outrageous. They were also startling.</div>
<div class="s4P">Much of this book can be understood as an effort to generalize Frankel’s arguments and to offer an understanding of their psychological foundations. To some people, noise in the criminal justice system seems uniquely intolerable, even scandalous. But in countless other contexts, it is not exactly tolerable, as supposedly interchangeable people in the private and public sectors make different judgments on the job. In insurance, recruitment and evaluation of employees, medicine, forensic science, education, business, and government, interpersonal noise is a major source of error. We have also seen that each of us is subject to occasion noise, in the sense that supposedly irrelevant factors can lead us to make different judgments in the morning and in the afternoon, or on Monday and Thursday.</div>
<div class="s4P">But as the intensely negative judicial reaction to the sentencing guidelines suggests, noise-reduction efforts often run into serious and even passionate objections. Many people have argued that the guidelines are rigid, dehumanizing, and unfair in their own way. Almost everyone has had the experience of making a reasonable request to a company, an employer, or a government, only to be met with the response “We really would love to help you, but our hands are tied. We have clear rules here.” The rules in question may seem stupid and even cruel, but they may have been adopted for a good reason: to reduce noise (and perhaps bias as <span id="page_303"></span>
well).</div>
<div class="s4P">Even so, some efforts to reduce noise raise serious concerns, perhaps above all if they make it difficult or impossible for people to get a fair hearing. The use of algorithms and machine learning has put that objection in a new light. No one is marching under a banner that says “Algorithms now!”</div>
<div class="s4P">An influential critique comes from Kate Stith of Yale Law School and José Cabranes, a federal judge. They offered a vigorous attack on the sentencing guidelines and, in a sense, on one of our central arguments here. Their argument was limited to the area of criminal sentencing, but it can be offered as an objection to many noise-reduction strategies in education, business, sports, and everywhere else. Stith and Cabranes maintain that the sentencing guidelines are animated “by a fear of the exercise of discretion—by a fear of judging—and by a technocratic faith in experts and central planning.” They argue that “fear of judging” operates to forbid consideration of “the particulars of each case at hand.” In their view, “no mechanical solution can satisfy the demands of justice.”</div>
<div class="s4P">These objections are worth examining. In settings that involve judgments of all kinds, people often view the “demands of justice” as forbidding any sort of mechanical solution—and hence allowing or even mandating processes and approaches that turn out to guarantee noise. Many people call for attention to “the particulars of each case at hand.” In hospitals, schools, and firms large and small, this call has deep intuitive appeal. We have seen that decision hygiene includes diverse strategies for reducing noise, and most of them do not involve mechanical solutions; when people decompose a problem into its component parts, their judgments need not be mechanical. Even so, many people would not welcome the use of decision hygiene strategies.</div>
<div class="s4P">We have defined noise as unwanted variability, and if something is unwanted, it should probably be eliminated. But the analysis is more complicated and more interesting than that. Noise may be unwanted, other things being equal. But other things might not be equal, and the costs of eliminating noise might exceed the benefits. And even when an analysis of costs and benefits suggests that noise is costly, eliminating it might produce a range of awful or even unacceptable consequences for both public and private institutions.</div>
<div id="page_304" class="s4P">There are seven major objections to efforts to reduce or eliminate noise.</div>
<div class="s4P">First, reducing noise can be expensive; it might not be worth the trouble. The steps that are necessary to reduce noise might be highly burdensome. In some cases, they might not even be feasible.</div>
<div class="s4P">Second, some strategies introduced to reduce noise might introduce errors of their own. Occasionally, they might produce systematic bias. If all forecasters in a government office adopted the same unrealistically optimistic assumptions, their forecasts would not be noisy, but they would be wrong. If all doctors at a hospital prescribed aspirin for every illness, they would not be noisy, but they would make plenty of mistakes.</div>
<div class="s4P">We explore these objections in <a href="part0038.xhtml">chapter 26</a>
. In <a href="part0039.xhtml">chapter 27</a>
, we turn to five more objections, which are also common and which are likely to be heard in many places in coming years, especially with increasing reliance on rules, algorithms, and machine learning.</div>
<div class="s4P">Third, if we want people to feel that they have been treated with respect and dignity, we might have to tolerate some noise. Noise can be a by-product of an imperfect process that people end up embracing because the process gives everyone (employees, customers, applicants, students, those accused of crime) an individualized hearing, an opportunity to influence the exercise of discretion, and a sense that they have had a chance to be seen and heard.</div>
<div class="s4P">Fourth, noise might be essential to accommodate new values and hence to allow moral and political evolution. If we eliminate noise, we might reduce our ability to respond when moral and political commitments move in new and unexpected directions. A noise-free system might freeze existing values.</div>
<div class="s4P">Fifth, some strategies designed to reduce noise might encourage opportunistic behavior, allowing people to game the system or evade prohibitions. A little noise, or perhaps a lot of it, might be necessary to prevent wrongdoing.</div>
<div class="s4P">Sixth, a noisy process might be a good deterrent. If people know that they could be subject to either a small penalty or a large one, they might steer clear of wrongdoing, at least if they are risk-averse. A system might tolerate noise as a way of producing extra deterrence.</div>
<div class="s4P">Finally, people do not want to be treated as if they are mere <span id="page_305"></span>
things, or cogs in some kind of machine. Some noise-reduction strategies might squelch people’s creativity and prove demoralizing.</div>
<div class="s4P">Although we will address these objections as sympathetically as we can, we by no means endorse them, at least not if they are taken as reasons to reject the general goal of reducing noise. To presage a point that will recur throughout: whether an objection is convincing depends on the particular noise-reduction strategy to which it is meant to apply. You might, for example, object to rigid guidelines while also agreeing that aggregation of independent judgments is a good idea. You might object to the use of the mediating assessments protocol while strongly favoring the use of a shared scale grounded in the outside view. With these points in mind, our general conclusion is that even when the objections are given their due, noise reduction remains a worthy and even an urgent goal. In <a href="part0040.xhtml">chapter 28</a>
, we defend this conclusion by exploring a dilemma that people face every day, even if they are not always aware of it.</div>
</body>
</html>
