<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<title>part0015</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="stylesheet.css" />
</head>
<body>
<div id="page_78" class="s6B">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XU">CHAPTER 7</a>
</div>
<div class="s6T">
<a href="part0003.xhtml#a2XU">Occasion Noise</a>
</div>
<div class="s4M">
<span class="s2WY">A</span>
 professional basketball player is preparing for a free throw. He stands at the foul line. He concentrates—and shoots. This is a precise sequence of moves he has practiced countless times. Will he make the shot?</div>
<div class="s4P">We don’t know, and neither does he. In the National Basketball Association, players typically make about three-quarters of their attempts. Some players, obviously, are better than others, but no player scores 100% of the time. The all-time best make a little over 90% of their free throws. (At the time of this writing, they are Stephen “Steph” Curry, Steve Nash, and Mark Price.) The all-time worst are around 50%. (The great Shaquille O’Neal, for example, made only about 53% of his shots.) Although the hoop is always exactly ten feet high and fifteen feet away, and the ball always weighs twenty-two ounces, the ability to repeat the precise sequence of gestures required to score does not come easily. Variability is expected, not just between players but within players. The free throw is a form of lottery, with a much higher chance of success if the shooter is Curry than if he is O’Neal, but it is a lottery nonetheless.</div>
<div class="s4P">Where does this variability come from? We know that countless factors can influence the player at the foul line: the fatigue of a long game, the mental pressure of a tight score, the cheers of the home court, or the boos of the opposing team’s fans. If someone like Curry or Nash misses, we will invoke one of these explanations. But in truth, we are unlikely to know the exact role these factors play. The variability in a shooter’s performance is a form of noise.</div>
<div id="page_79" class="s7D">The Second Lottery</div>
<div class="s4M">Variability in free throws or in other physical processes comes as no surprise. We are used to variability in our bodies: our heart rate, our blood pressure, our reflexes, the tone of our voice, and the trembling of our hands are different at different times. And however hard we try to produce the same signature, it is still slightly different on every check.</div>
<div class="s4P">It is less easy to observe the variability of our minds. Of course, we have all had the experience of changing our minds, even without new information. The film that made us laugh out loud last night now seems mediocre and forgettable. The person we judged severely yesterday now seems to deserve our indulgence. An argument that we had not liked or understood sinks in and now appears essential. But as these examples suggest, we usually associate such changes with relatively minor and largely subjective matters.</div>
<div class="s4P">In reality, our opinions do change without apparent reason. This point holds even for matters of careful, considered judgment by professional experts. For instance, it is common to obtain significantly different diagnoses from the same physicians when they are presented twice with the same case (see <a href="part0033.xhtml">chapter 22</a>
). When wine experts at a major US wine competition tasted the same wines twice, they scored only 18% of the wines identically (usually, the very worst ones). A forensic expert can reach different conclusions when examining the same fingerprints twice, just a few weeks apart (see <a href="part0031.xhtml">chapter 20</a>
). Experienced software consultants can offer markedly different estimates of the completion time for the same task on two occasions. Simply put, just like a basketball player who never throws the ball twice in exactly the same way, we do not always produce identical judgments when faced with the same facts on two occasions.</div>
<div class="s4P">We have described the process that picks an underwriter, a judge, or a doctor as a lottery that creates system noise. Occasion noise is the product of a second lottery. This lottery picks the moment when the professional makes a judgment, the professional’s mood, the sequence of cases that are fresh in mind, and countless other features of the occasion. This second lottery usually remains much more abstract than the first. We can see how the first lottery <span id="page_80"></span>
could have selected a different underwriter, for instance, but the alternatives to the actual responses of the selected underwriter are abstract counterfactuals. We know only that the judgment that did occur was picked from a cloud of possibilities. Occasion noise is the variability among these unseen possibilities.</div>
<div class="s7D">Measuring Occasion Noise</div>
<div class="s4M">Measuring occasion noise is not easy—for much the same reason that its existence, once established, often surprises us. When people form a carefully considered professional opinion, they associate it with the reasons that justify their point of view. If pressed to explain their judgment, they will usually defend it with arguments that they find convincing. And if they are presented with the same problem a second time and recognize it, they will reproduce the earlier answer both to minimize effort and maintain consistency. Consider this example from the teaching profession: if a teacher gives an excellent grade to a student essay and then rereads the same essay a week later after seeing the original grade, he will be unlikely to give it a very different grade.</div>
<div class="s4P">For this reason, direct measurements of occasion noise are hard to obtain whenever cases are easily memorable. If, for example, you show an underwriter or a criminal judge a case that they previously decided, they will probably recognize the case and just repeat their previous judgment. One review of research on variability in professional judgment (technically known as <span class="s2WT-0">test-retest reliability,</span>
 or <span class="s2WT-0">reliability</span>
 for short) included many studies in which the experts made the same judgment twice in the same session. Not surprisingly, they tended to agree with themselves.</div>
<div class="s4P">The experiments we mentioned above bypassed this issue by using stimuli that the experts would not recognize. The wine judges took part in a blind tasting. The fingerprint examiners were shown pairs of prints they had already seen, and the software experts were asked about tasks they had already worked on—but some weeks or months later and without being told that these were cases they had already examined.</div>
<div class="s4P">There is another, less direct way to confirm the existence of occasion noise: by using big data and econometric methods. When a <span id="page_81"></span>
large sample of past professional decisions is available, analysts can sometimes check whether these decisions were influenced by occasion-specific, irrelevant factors, such as time of day or outside temperature. Statistically significant effects of such irrelevant factors on judgments are evidence of occasion noise. Realistically speaking, there is no hope of discovering all the extraneous sources of occasion noise, but those that can be found illustrate the great variety of these sources. If we are to control occasion noise, we must try to understand the mechanisms that produce it.</div>
<div class="s7D">One Is a Crowd</div>
<div class="s4M">Think of this question: what percentage of the world’s airports are in the United States? As you thought about it, an answer probably came to your mind. But it did not occur to you in the same way that you would remember your age or your phone number. You are aware that the number you just produced is an estimate. It is not a random number—1% or 99% would clearly be wrong answers. But the number you came up with is just one in a range of possibilities that you would not rule out. If someone added or subtracted 1 percentage point from your answer, you would probably not find the resulting guess much less plausible than yours. (The correct answer, in case you wonder, is 32%.)</div>
<div class="s4P">Two researchers, Edward Vul and Harold Pashler, had the idea of asking people to answer this question (and many similar ones) not once but twice. The subjects were not told the first time that they would have to guess again. Vul and Pashler’s hypothesis was that the average of the two answers would be more accurate than either of the answers on its own.</div>
<div class="s4P">The data proved them right. In general, the first guess was closer to the truth than the second, but the best estimate came from averaging the two guesses.</div>
<div class="s4P">Vul and Pashler drew inspiration from the well-known phenomenon known as the <span class="s2WT-0">wisdom-of-crowds effect:</span>
 averaging the independent judgments of different people generally improves accuracy. In 1907, Francis Galton, a cousin of Darwin and a famous polymath, asked 787 villagers at a country fair to estimate the weight of a prize ox. None of the villagers guessed the actual weight <span id="page_82"></span>
of the ox, which was 1,198 pounds, but the mean of their guesses was 1,200, just 2 pounds off, and the median (1,207) was also very close. The villagers were a “wise crowd” in the sense that although their individual estimates were quite noisy, they were unbiased. Galton’s demonstration surprised him: he had little respect for the judgment of ordinary people, and despite himself, he urged that his results were “more creditable to the trustworthiness of a democratic judgment than might have been expected.”</div>
<div class="s4P">Similar results have been found in hundreds of situations. Of course, if questions are so difficult that only experts can come close to the answer, crowds will not necessarily be very accurate. But when, for instance, people are asked to guess the number of jelly beans in a transparent jar, to predict the temperature in their city one week out, or to estimate the distance between two cities in a state, the average answer of a large number of people is likely to be close to the truth. The reason is basic statistics: averaging several independent judgments (or measurements) yields a new judgment, which is less noisy, albeit not less biased, than the individual judgments.</div>
<div class="s4P">Vul and Pashler wanted to find out if the same effect extends to occasion noise: can you get closer to the truth by combining two guesses from the same person, just as you do when you combine the guesses of different people? As they discovered, the answer is yes. Vul and Pashler gave this finding an evocative name: <span class="s2WT-0">the crowd within</span>
.</div>
<div class="s4P">Averaging two guesses by the same person does not improve judgments as much as does seeking out an independent second opinion. As Vul and Pashler put it, “You can gain about 1/10th as much from asking yourself the same question twice as you can from getting a second opinion from someone else.” This is not a large improvement. But you can make the effect much larger by waiting to make a second guess. When Vul and Pashler let three weeks pass before asking their subjects the same question again, the benefit rose to one-third the value of a second opinion. Not bad for a technique that does not require any additional information or outside help. And this result certainly provides a rationale for the age-old advice to decision makers: “Sleep on it, and think again in the morning.”</div>
<div class="s4P">Working independently of Vul and Pashler but at about the same time, two German researchers, Stefan Herzog and Ralph <span id="page_83"></span>
Hertwig, came up with a different implementation of the same principle. Instead of merely asking their subjects to produce a second estimate, they encouraged people to generate an estimate that—while still plausible—was as different as possible from the first one. This request required the subjects to think actively of information they had not considered the first time. The instructions to participants read as follows:</div>
<div class="s70">First, assume that your first estimate is off the mark. Second, think about a few reasons why that could be. Which assumptions and considerations could have been wrong? Third, what do these new considerations imply? Was the first estimate rather too high or too low? Fourth, based on this new perspective, make a second, alternative estimate.</div>
<div class="s4P">Like Vul and Pashler, Herzog and Hertwig then averaged the two estimates thus produced. Their technique, which they named <span class="s2WT-0">dialectical bootstrapping,</span>
 produced larger improvements in accuracy than did a simple request for a second estimate immediately following the first. Because the participants forced themselves to consider the question in a new light, they sampled another, more different version of themselves—two “members” of the “crowd within” who were further apart. As a result, their average produced a more accurate estimate of the truth. The gain in accuracy with two immediately consecutive “dialectical” estimates was about half the value of a second opinion.</div>
<div class="s4P">The upshot for decision makers, as summarized by Herzog and Hertwig, is a simple choice between procedures: if you can get independent opinions from others, do it—this real wisdom of crowds is highly likely to improve your judgment. If you cannot, make the same judgment yourself a second time to create an “inner crowd.” You can do this either after some time has passed—giving yourself distance from your first opinion—or by actively trying to argue against yourself to find another perspective on the problem. Finally, regardless of the type of crowd, unless you have very strong reasons to put more weight on one of the estimates, your best bet is to average them.</div>
<div id="page_84" class="s4P">Beyond practical advice, this line of research confirms an essential insight about judgment. As Vul and Pashler put it, “Responses made by a subject are sampled from an internal probability distribution, rather than deterministically selected on the basis of all the knowledge a subject has.” This observation echoes the experience you had when answering the question about airports in the United States: Your first answer did not capture all your knowledge or even the best of it. The answer was just one point in the cloud of possible answers that your mind could have generated. The variability we observe in judgments of the same problem by the same person is not a fluke observed in a few highly specialized problems: occasion noise affects all our judgments, all the time.</div>
<div class="s7D">Sources of Occasion Noise</div>
<div class="s4M">There is at least one source of occasion noise that we have all noticed: mood. We’ve all experienced how our own judgments can depend on how we feel—and we are certainly aware that the judgments of others vary with their moods, too.</div>
<div class="s4P">The effect of moods on judgment has been the subject of a vast amount of psychological research. It is remarkably easy to make people temporarily happy or sad and to measure the variability of their judgments and decisions after these moods have been induced. Researchers use a variety of techniques to do this. For example, participants are sometimes asked to write a paragraph recalling either a happy memory or a sad one. Sometimes they simply view a video segment taken either from a funny movie or from a tearjerker.</div>
<div class="s4P">Several psychologists have spent decades investigating the effects of mood manipulation. Perhaps the most prolific is Australian psychologist Joseph Forgas. He has published around a hundred scientific papers on the subject of mood.</div>
<div class="s4P">Some of Forgas’s research confirms what you already think: People who are in a good mood are generally more positive. They find it easier to recall happy memories than sad ones, they are more approving of people, they are more generous and helpful, and so on. Negative mood has the opposite effects. As Forgas writes, “The same smile that is seen as friendly by a person in a good mood may be <span id="page_85"></span>
judged as awkward when the observer is in a negative mood; discussing the weather could be seen as poised when the person is in a good mood but boring when that person is in a bad mood.”</div>
<div class="s4P">In other words, mood has a measurable influence on what you think: what you notice in your environment, what you retrieve from your memory, how you make sense of these signals. But mood has another, more surprising effect: it also changes <span class="s2WT-0">how</span>
 you think. And here, the effects are not those you might imagine. Being in a good mood is a mixed blessing, and bad moods have a silver lining. The costs and benefits of different moods are situation-specific.</div>
<div class="s4P">In a negotiation situation, for instance, good mood helps. People in a good mood are more cooperative and elicit reciprocation. They tend to end up with better results than do unhappy negotiators. Of course, successful negotiations make people happy, too, but in these experiments, the mood is not caused by what is going on in the negotiation; it is induced before people negotiate. Also, negotiators who shift from a good mood to an angry one during the negotiation often achieve good results—something to remember when you’re facing a stubborn counterpart!</div>
<div class="s4P">On the other hand, a good mood makes us more likely to accept our first impressions as true without challenging them. In one of Forgas’s studies, participants read a short philosophical essay, to which a picture of the author was appended. Some readers saw a stereotypical philosophy professor—male, middle-aged, and wearing glasses. Others saw a young woman. As you can guess, this is a test of the readers’ vulnerability to stereotypes: do people rate the essay more favorably when it is attributed to a middle-aged man than they do when they believe that a young woman wrote it? They do, of course. But importantly, the difference is larger in the good-mood condition. People who are in a good mood are more likely to let their biases affect their thinking.</div>
<div class="s4P">Other studies tested the effect of mood on gullibility. Gordon Pennycook and colleagues have conducted many studies of people’s reactions to meaningless, pseudo-profound statements generated by assembling randomly selected nouns and verbs from the sayings of popular gurus into grammatically correct sentences, such as “Wholeness quiets infinite phenomena” or “Hidden meaning transforms unparalleled abstract beauty.” The propensity to agree with such statements is a trait known as <span class="s2WT-0">bullshit receptivity.</span>
 (<span class="s2WT-0">Bullshit</span>
 <span id="page_86"></span>
has become something of a technical term since Harry Frankfurt, a philosopher at Princeton University, published an insightful book, <span class="s2WT-0">On Bullshit,</span>
 in which he distinguished bullshit from other types of misrepresentation.)</div>
<div class="s4P">Sure enough, some people are more receptive than others to bullshit. They can be impressed by “seemingly impressive assertions that are presented as true and meaningful but are actually vacuous.” But here again, this gullibility is not merely a function of permanent, unchanging dispositions. Inducing good moods makes people more receptive to bullshit and more gullible in general; they are less apt to detect deception or identify misleading information. Conversely, eyewitnesses who are exposed to misleading information are better able to disregard it—and to avoid false testimony—when they are in a bad mood.</div>
<div class="s4P">Even moral judgments are strongly influenced by mood. In one study, researchers exposed subjects to the footbridge problem, a classic problem in moral philosophy. In this thought experiment, five people are about to be killed by a runaway trolley. Subjects are to imagine themselves standing on a footbridge, underneath which the trolley will soon pass. They must decide whether to push a large man off the footbridge and onto the tracks so that his body will stop the trolley. If they do so, they are told, the large man will die, but the five people will be saved.</div>
<div class="s4P">The footbridge problem illustrates the conflict between approaches to moral reasoning. Utilitarian calculation, associated with English philosopher Jeremy Bentham, suggests that the loss of one life is preferable to the loss of five. Deontological ethics, associated with Immanuel Kant, prohibits killing someone, even in the service of saving several others. The footbridge problem clearly contains a salient element of personal emotion: physically pushing a man off a bridge into the path of an oncoming trolley is a particularly repugnant act. Making the utilitarian choice to push the man off the bridge requires people to overcome their aversion to a physically violent act against a stranger. Only a minority of people (in this study, fewer than one in ten) usually say they would do so.</div>
<div class="s4P">However, when the subjects were placed in a positive mood—induced by watching a five-minute video segment—they became three times more likely to say that they would push the man off the bridge. Whether we regard “Thou shalt not kill” as an absolute <span id="page_87"></span>
principle or are willing to kill one stranger to save five should reflect our deepest values. Yet our choice seems to depend on what video clip we have just watched.</div>
<div class="s4P">We have described these studies of mood in some detail because we need to emphasize an important truth: <span class="s2WT-0">you are not the same person at all times.</span>
 As your mood varies (something you are, of course, aware of), some features of your cognitive machinery vary with it (something you are <span class="s2WT-0">not</span>
 fully aware of). If you are shown a complex judgment problem, your mood in the moment may influence your approach to the problem and the conclusions you reach, even when you believe that your mood has no such influence and even when you can confidently justify the answer you found. In short, you are noisy.</div>
<div class="s4P">Many other incidental factors induce occasion noise in judgments. Among the extraneous factors that should not influence professional judgments, but do, are two prime suspects: stress and fatigue. A study of nearly seven hundred thousand primary care visits, for instance, showed that physicians are significantly more likely to prescribe opioids at the end of a long day. Surely, there is no reason why a patient with a 4 pm appointment should be in greater pain than one who shows up at 9 am. Nor should the fact that the doctor is running behind schedule influence prescription decisions. And indeed, prescriptions of other pain treatments, such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and referrals to physical therapy, do not display similar patterns. When physicians are under time pressure, they are apparently more inclined to choose a quick-fix solution, despite its serious downsides. Other studies showed that, toward the end of the day, physicians are more likely to prescribe antibiotics and less likely to prescribe flu shots.</div>
<div class="s4P">Even the weather has a measurable influence on professional judgments. Since these judgments are often made in air-conditioned rooms, the effect of weather is probably “mediated” by mood (that is, the weather does not directly affect decisions but modifies the decision maker’s mood, which in turn does change how they decide). Bad weather is associated with improved memory; judicial sentences tend to be more severe when it is hot outside; and stock market performance is affected by sunshine. In some cases, the effect of the weather is less obvious. Uri Simonsohn showed that college admissions officers pay more attention to the academic attributes of <span id="page_88"></span>
candidates on cloudier days and are more sensitive to nonacademic attributes on sunnier days. The title of the article in which he reported these findings is memorable enough: “Clouds Make Nerds Look Good.”</div>
<div class="s4P">Another source of random variability in judgment is the order in which cases are examined. When a person is considering a case, the decisions that immediately preceded it serve as an implicit frame of reference. Professionals who make a series of decisions in sequence, including judges, loan officers, and baseball umpires, lean toward restoring a form of balance: after a streak, or a series of decisions that go in the same direction, they are more likely to decide in the opposite direction than would be strictly justified. As a result, errors (and unfairness) are inevitable. Asylum judges in the United States, for instance, are 19% less likely to grant asylum to an applicant when the previous two cases were approved. A person might be approved for a loan if the previous two applications were denied, but the same person might have been rejected if the previous two applications had been granted. This behavior reflects a cognitive bias known as the <span class="s2WT-0">gambler’s fallacy:</span>
 we tend to underestimate the likelihood that streaks will occur by chance.</div>
<div class="s7D">Sizing Occasion Noise</div>
<div class="s4M">How large is occasion noise relative to total system noise? Although no single number applies to all situations, a general rule emerges. In terms of their size, the effects we have described in this chapter are smaller than stable differences between individuals in their levels and patterns of judgments.</div>
<div class="s4P">As noted, for instance, the chance that an asylum applicant will be admitted in the United States drops by 19% if the hearing follows two successful ones by the same judge. This variability is certainly troubling. But it pales in comparison with the variability between judges: in one Miami courthouse, Jaya Ramji-Nogales and her co-authors found that one judge would grant asylum to 88% of applicants and another to only 5%. (This is real data, not a noise audit, so the applicants were different, but they were quasi-randomly assigned, and the authors checked that differences in country of origin did not explain the discrepancies.) Given such <span id="page_89"></span>
disparities, reducing one of these numbers by 19% does not seem like such a big deal.</div>
<div class="s4P">Similarly, fingerprint examiners and physicians sometimes disagree with themselves, but they do so less often than they disagree with others. In every case we reviewed in which the share of occasion noise in total system noise could be measured, occasion noise was a smaller contributor than were differences among individuals.</div>
<div class="s4P">Or to put it differently, you are not always the same person, and you are less consistent over time than you think. But somewhat reassuringly, you are more similar to yourself yesterday than you are to another person today.</div>
<div class="s7D">Occasion Noise, Inner Causes</div>
<div class="s4M">Mood, fatigue, weather, sequence effects: many factors may trigger unwanted variations in the judgment of the same case by the same person. We might hope to construct a setting in which all the extraneous factors bearing on decisions are known and controlled. In theory at least, such a setting should reduce occasion noise. But even this setting would probably not be sufficient to eliminate occasion noise entirely.</div>
<div class="s4P">Michael Kahana and his University of Pennsylvania colleagues study memory performance. (Memory is not a judgment task by our definition, but it is a cognitive task for which conditions can be rigorously controlled and variations in performance easily measured.) In one study, they asked seventy-nine subjects to participate in an exceptionally thorough analysis of their memory performance. The subjects sat through twenty-three sessions on separate days, during each of which they had to recall words from twenty-four different lists of twenty-four words each. The percentage of words recalled defines memory performance.</div>
<div class="s4P">Kahana and his colleagues were not interested in the differences between subjects but rather in the predictors of variability in the performance of each subject. Would performance be driven by how alert the subjects felt? By how much sleep they got the previous night? By the time of day? Would their performance increase with practice from one session to the next? Would it <span id="page_90"></span>
deteriorate within each session as they got tired or bored? Would some lists of words prove easier to memorize than others?</div>
<div class="s4P">The answer to all these questions was yes, but not by very much. A model that incorporated all these predictors explained only 11% of the variation in the performance of a given subject. As the researchers put it, “We were struck by how much variability remained after removing the effects of our predictor variables.” Even in this tightly controlled setting, exactly what factors drive occasion noise was a mystery.</div>
<div class="s4P">Of all the variables the researchers studied, the most powerful predictor of a subject’s performance on a particular list was not an external factor. Performance on one list of words was best predicted by how well a subject had performed on the list that immediately preceded it. A successful list was likely to be followed by another relatively successful one, and a mediocre one by another mediocre one. Performance did not vary randomly from list to list: within each session, it ebbed and flowed over time, with no obvious external cause.</div>
<div class="s4P">These findings suggest that memory performance is driven in large part by, in Kahana and coauthors’ words, “the efficiency of endogenous neural processes that govern memory function.” In other words, the moment-to-moment variability in the efficacy of the brain is not just driven by external influences, like the weather or a distracting intervention. It is a characteristic of the way our brain itself functions.</div>
<div class="s4P">It is very likely that intrinsic variability in the functioning of the brain also affects the quality of our judgments in ways that we cannot possibly hope to control. This variability in brain function should give pause to anyone who thinks occasion noise can be eliminated. The analogy with the basketball player at the free-throw line was not as simplistic as it may have initially appeared: just as the player’s muscles never execute exactly the same gesture, our neurons never operate in exactly the same way. If our mind is a measuring instrument, it will never be a perfect one.</div>
<div class="s4P">We can, however, strive to control those undue influences that can be controlled. Doing so is especially important when judgments are made in groups, as we will see in <a href="part0016.xhtml">chapter 8</a>
.</div>
<div class="s84">Speaking of Occasion Noise</div>
<div id="page_91" class="s86">
<span class="class-2">“Judgment is like a free throw: however hard we try to repeat it precisely, it is never exactly identical.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s88">
<span class="class-2">“Your judgment depends on what mood you are in, what cases you have just discussed, and even what the weather is. You are not the same person at all times.”</span>
</div>
<div class="s8A">
<span class="class-2">“Although you may not be the same person you were last week, you are less different from the ‘you’ of last week than you are from someone else today. Occasion noise is not the largest source of system noise.”</span>
</div>
</body>
</html>
