<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch003.xhtml</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="introduction" class="level1 Chapter-Heading" data-number="2">
<h1 class="Chapter-Heading" data-number="2">Introduction</h1>
<p>No matter what you do for a living, it’s become essential to understand technology. Doctors are now using artificial intelligence to diagnose patients.<a href="#fn1" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref1" epub:type="noteref">1</a> Farmers are using drones to grow better crops.<a href="#fn2" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref2" epub:type="noteref">2</a> Businesspeople have realized that, while the world’s biggest companies used to be oil and electric firms,<a href="#fn3" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref3" epub:type="noteref">3</a> they’re now the likes of Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google, and Microsoft.<a href="#fn4" class="footnote-ref" id="fnref4" epub:type="noteref">4</a></p>
<p>So, how do you learn to understand technology?</p>
<p>It often feels like you have to be a master coder to understand the barrage of concepts that techies talk about: SaaS, APIs, SSL, cloud computing, and augmented reality, to name a few. And it often feels like you have to have an MBA to make sense of the daily deluge of tech news: startups, acquisitions, app launches, rumors, you name it.</p>
<p>But we think anyone can understand tech, no matter their background. We think the most important technology topics — from the nuts and bolts of the internet to the business strategies of Facebook and Uber — can be explained in plain, simple English.</p>
<section id="the-goal" class="level2" data-number="2.1">
<h2 data-number="2.1">The goal</h2>
<p><em>Swipe to Unlock</em> is a primer on technology and business strategy. In this book, we’ll use real-world examples to break down the software, hardware, and business strategies that power the tech world and give you the tools to start understanding, analyzing, and shaping tech yourself. No prior knowledge is assumed.</p>
<p>Each section in <em>Swipe to Unlock</em> is a real-world case study, posing a question you might have had yourself — like how Spotify recommends songs, how self-driving cars work, and why Amazon offers free shipping with Prime even though it loses them money.</p>
<p>In each section, we’ll explain the <em>what</em> — the technology concepts like big data and machine learning — and then the <em>why</em> — the business reasons why companies would use these technologies in the first place. We’ll draw on our experience working as product managers at tech companies large and small to give you insights into how the world of tech operates.</p>
<p>By the end of this book, we aim to unlock your ability to think like a technologist. We’ll train you to think through tech topics you encounter in the future: how the technology works, why it was made that way, where the money comes from, and whether or not it’ll succeed. While specific apps and companies come and go, we hope that the core concepts you’ll learn in <em>Swipe to Unlock</em> will be useful for a long time to come.</p>
</section>
<section id="who-this-book-is-for" class="level2" data-number="2.2">
<h2 data-number="2.2">Who this book is for</h2>
<p><em>Swipe to Unlock</em> aims to be accessible to people of all skill levels. Whether you’re a casual observer or a business professional, we think you’ll find something useful and interesting.</p>
<p>If you don’t have a coding background but want to break into product management, business development, marketing, or other non-engineering roles at tech companies, you’ll have to be able to explain things like artificial intelligence, algorithms, and big data to teammates and clients. And to shape your company’s business strategies you’ll have to know which business strategies have been successful (or not) in the past and why. <em>Swipe to Unlock</em>’s case studies and plain-English explanations of tech concepts should help you with both.</p>
<p>If you’re a software engineer but want to move toward product management roles, we’ll teach you about the business side of the equation: ads, monetization, acquisitions, and the like.</p>
<p>If you’re an entrepreneur or a tech leader, you know it’s not enough to just build a great product. We’ll use real-world case studies to build up your understanding of tech and intuition of business strategy so you can figure out how to make your company thrive and speak intelligently with investors and employees.</p>
<p>If you’re a student of tech and business, <em>Swipe to Unlock</em>’s case studies will fit right in with your classes. You’ll learn what has made companies like Amazon succeed and why products like Blackberry failed, and you’ll get a feel for how tech companies have handled tech policy, disruption, and emerging markets.</p>
<p>Even if you don’t work at a tech company, chances are your company can use tech to stay ahead of the curve. Predictive analytics, software-as-a-service, A/B testing — you’ll learn about these hot terms and how even non-tech companies have used them to grow their businesses.</p>
<p>Finally, even if you don’t need to know tech for your career, you still use it every day — you probably have an advanced piece of technology in your pocket right now. We’ll help you become a better-informed digital citizen by using analogies and plain English to explain how the tech you use every day works. We’ll also cover topics you might have heard on the news, such as net neutrality, privacy, and tech regulation. We’ll even look at the dark side of tech: fake news, data breaches, digital drug trafficking, and robot-powered job destruction.</p>
<p>No matter why you’re reading <em>Swipe to Unlock</em>, we think you’ll find plenty of valuable insights and ideas, and you’ll learn how to think — and speak! — like a technologist.</p>
<p>Before we dive in, let’s take a look at what you’ll be reading about.</p>
</section>
<section id="whats-inside" class="level2" data-number="2.3">
<h2 data-number="2.3">What’s inside</h2>
<p><em>Swipe to Unlock</em> is broken into three big chunks. The first chunk, chapters 1 to 4, breaks down the fundamentals of technology: how software is built, how the internet works, and the business models of major apps. The second chunk, chapters 5 through 8, gives you a tour of the tech world’s major components: big data, cloud computing, security, and the like. The third chunk, chapters 9 to 12, builds off the first two and dives deep into trends, analysis, and predictions: business strategy, emerging markets, tech policy, and what’s next in technology.</p>
<p>Each chapter builds off the previous ones, so if you’re new to technology we recommend reading <em>Swipe to Unlock</em> front-to-back. If you’re more seasoned, feel free to jump around to whatever cases seem the most relevant — each case can be read independently if you’ve learned the necessary concepts.</p>
<p>After the main content, we’ve included a glossary of the most important terms we’ve come across while working in the tech industry, covering programming languages, business jargon, common software engineering tools, and more. We think it’ll help you speak like a technologist and be a useful reference for you going forward.</p>
<p>Finally, we couldn’t possibly cover everything about tech and business strategy in a single book, so we’ve provided hundreds of citations per chapter. You’ll find these links on our website at <a href="https://swipetounlock.com/notes/3.4.0/">swipetounlock.com/notes/3.4.0</a>. We encourage you to use the citations to dive deeper into any topic that interests you!</p>
</section>
<section id="who-we-are" class="level2" data-number="2.4">
<h2 data-number="2.4">Who we are</h2>
<p>When the three of us first met, we started talking about how Silicon Valley, for all its talk about openness and meritocracy, actually makes it quite hard for non-experts to understand it, let alone break into the tech industry. We realized we were passionate about changing that — which is why we wrote <em>Swipe to Unlock.</em></p>
<p>The three of us have all worked as product managers at major tech companies, but we come from very different parts of the tech world — Neel from the public and nonprofit sectors, Adi from the startup space, and Parth from the business and marketing side. We hope our combined perspectives and insights prove useful for you.</p>
<p>Here’s a bit more about us.</p>
<p><strong>Neel Mehta</strong> is a Product Manager at Google. He previously worked at Microsoft, Khan Academy, and the US Census Bureau, where he launched the first fully-funded tech internship program in the federal government. He graduated <em>cum laude</em> from Harvard University.</p>
<p><strong>Aditya Agashe</strong> is a Product Manager at Microsoft. Previously, he was the founder and CEO of Belle Applications. He graduated <em>cum laude</em> from Cornell University.</p>
<p><strong>Parth Detroja</strong> is a Product Manager at Facebook. He has previously worked at Microsoft, Amazon, and IBM as a product manager and marketer. He graduated <em>summa cum laude</em> from Cornell University.</p>
</section>
<section id="notes-for-job-hunters" class="level2" data-number="2.5">
<h2 data-number="2.5">Notes for job hunters</h2>
<p>Before we get started, we have some tips and resources for you if you’re looking for a non-engineering role at a tech company.</p>
<p>First, bear in mind that the questions we’ll answer in <em>Swipe to Unlock</em> aren’t designed to resemble actual interview questions, but they will give you the technical and business insights to craft answers that’ll set you apart from the pack.</p>
<p>For instance, in <em>Swipe to Unlock</em> we’ll cover how Google decides what ads to show people and why Microsoft bought LinkedIn. Interviewers probably won’t ask you to regurgitate these cases, but they might ask you how to increase ad revenue from a particular demographic or how to improve Microsoft’s enterprise products — in which case, these cases will help you give more insightful answers and show the depth of your industry knowledge.</p>
<p><em>Swipe to Unlock</em>, in other words, is focused on training you to think like a technologist instead of teaching you how to interview. Sample interview questions alone won’t help you think strategically about the tech industry or become fluent in tech concepts, but we think <em>Swipe to Unlock</em> will.</p>
<p>For more tactical advice on preparing for interviews, creating a resume, networking, and choosing a job, check out <a href="https://swipetounlock.com/resources">swipetounlock.com/resources</a>, where we share links to some useful books and articles.</p>
</section>
<section id="thank-you" class="level2" data-number="2.6">
<h2 data-number="2.6">Thank you!</h2>
<p>Whatever your personal, academic, or career goals, we hope <em>Swipe to Unlock</em> proves useful for you. Thank you again for choosing to read <em>Swipe to Unlock</em>, and we hope you enjoy!</p>
<p><strong>Neel Mehta</strong></p>
<p><a href="https://namehta.com/">namehta.com</a></p>
<p><a href="https://linkedin.com/in/neelmehta18">linkedin.com/in/neelmehta18</a></p>
<p><strong>Aditya Agashe</strong></p>
<p><a href="https://adityaagashe.com/">adityaagashe.com</a></p>
<p><a href="https://linkedin.com/in/adityaagashe">linkedin.com/in/adityaagashe</a><a href="https://www.quora.com/profile/Adi-Agashe">quora.com/profile/Adi-Agashe</a></p>
<p><strong>Parth Detroja</strong></p>
<p><a href="http://parthdetroja.com/">parthdetroja.com</a></p>
<p><a href="https://linkedin.com/in/parthdetroja"><strong>linkedin.com/in/parthdetroja</strong></a></p>
</section>
</section>
<section class="footnotes" epub:type="footnotes">
<hr />
<ol>
<li id="fn1" epub:type="footnote"><h2 id="introduction-1">Introduction</h2>
<p><a href="https://www.wired.com/2014/06/ai-healthcare/">https://www.wired.com/2014/06/ai-healthcare/</a><a href="#fnref1" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
<li id="fn2" epub:type="footnote"><p><a href="https://www.technologyreview.com/s/526491/agricultural-drones/">https://www.technologyreview.com/s/526491/agricultural-drones/</a><a href="#fnref2" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
<li id="fn3" epub:type="footnote"><p><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_public_corporations_by_market_capitalization#1996">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_public_corporations_by_market_capitalization#1996</a><a href="#fnref3" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></p></li>
<li id="fn4" epub:type="footnote"><p><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_public_corporations_by_market_capitalization#2018">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_public_corporations_by_market_capitalization#2018</a></p>
<h2 id="chapter-1.-software-development">Chapter 1. Software Development</h2>
<a href="#fnref4" class="footnote-back" role="doc-backlink">↩︎</a></li>
</ol>
</section>
</body>
</html>
