<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch019.xhtml</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="acknowledgements" class="level1 Chapter-Heading" data-number="18">
<h1 class="Chapter-Heading" data-number="18">Acknowledgements</h1>
<p>Very soon after we started writing <em>Swipe to Unlock</em>, we realized that we couldn’t do it alone — it takes a village, as they say. Here, we’d like to thank all our friends and family who provided their support, feedback, and inspiration as we were writing this book.</p>
<section id="neel" class="level2" data-number="18.1">
<h2 data-number="18.1">Neel</h2>
<p>Thanks a million to Alaisha Sharma, Amy Zhao, Andrea Chen, Aron Szanto, Arpan Sarkar, Ivraj Seerha, Jeffrey He, Maitreyee Joshi, Menaka Narayanan, Saim Raza, Sathvik Sudireddy, Sohum Pawar, Tara Mehta, and Vishal Jain for your suggestions and advice on <em>Swipe to Unlock</em>. All my other friends deserve a shout-out for putting up with me talking nonstop about this book. I’d also like to thank some of my mentors who have inspired me to use my tech skills to make a difference: Jeff Meisel, Nick Sinai, and William Greenlaw, to name just a few. My fantastic co-authors, Adi and Parth, have been some of the best friends and colleagues. And finally, I’d like to thank my parents for their endless support through whatever I do.</p>
</section>
<section id="parth" class="level2" data-number="18.2">
<h2 data-number="18.2">Parth</h2>
<p>A huge thank you is in order for all the friends and family who helped us get this book to where it is today. I’d like to especially thank Michelle Wang, Deborah Streeter, Jeremy Schifeling, Jack Keeley, Christina Gee, Stephanie Xu, Niketan Patel, Kevin Cole, Bradley Miles, Ivy Kuo, Krishna Detroja, Gabrielle Ennis, Adam Harrison, Winny Sun, Amanda Xu, William Stern, Samantha Haveson, Suleyman Demirel, and Soundarya Balasubramani. These kind individuals provided their valuable time, skills, opinions, and insights on everything from content to design to marketing. I am incredibly grateful for having the support of such amazing friends and family.</p>
</section>
<section id="adi" class="level2" data-number="18.3">
<h2 data-number="18.3">Adi</h2>
<p>I would like to thank everyone who patiently helped us along the way — we wouldn't have been able to do it without your support. First, a sincere thank you to Pam Silverstein, Peter Cortle, Professor Nancy Chau, and Professor Michael Roach who enthusiastically encouraged us to share our technology knowledge. Next, I'd like to thank all my friends who helped with everything from reviewing chapters to looking over cover designs — thanks Michelle Jang, Lauren Stechschulte, Holly Deng, Eunu Song, Sai Naidu, Sandeep Gupta, Nivi Obla, Jenny Kim, Brian Gross, Eric Johnson, and Eileen Dai. Also, a huge shout-out to Natsuko Suzuki who tirelessly helped out with the design heavy lifting for the book cover, website, and other branding. And finally, thanks to my family for their support and love throughout this journey.</p>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
